342 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

2) Loss of sensibility of the fauces, larynx, urethra, entire body.
3) Fidgety hand ; hands and fingers in constant motion.
4) Nervous, restless, cannot sit still, must move about on keeping occupied.

5) Staggering, uncertain gait ; feels as if the legs were all over side-walk.
6) Profound melacholy (Aur).

7) Incoordination of muscles, (Gels.) nervous weakness or paralysis of motion and
numbness.

8) Nervous cough during pregnancy ; hard, dry, almost incessent cough ; threatening
abortion. (Con.)

9) Restlessness and sleeplessness due to worry and grief, loss of property or
reputation; from business embarrass-ment. (Hyos.)

10) Daily colic in infants at about 5 am (at 4 pm—Colocy., Lyco).
11) Stammering : slow, difficult speech (Bov. Spigel., Stramo.)

12) Epilepsy, usually a day or two before menses (Bufo.) ; at new moon -, headache
follows attack.

13) Skin : Acne simplex, indurata, rosacea ; bluish-red pus-tular on face, chest,
shoulders.

14) Mind : “Mentally the Kali Brom. Patient is depressed, low-spirited, melancholic,
anxious, feels as if they would lose their minds”. There is fits on uncontrollable
weeping with profound melancholic delusions and feeling of moral deficiency. Brain
Fag. He is nervous, restless, cannot sit still, must move about or keep occupied.
Loss of memory, forgets how to talk, has to be told the word before he can speak it.
Fear of being poisoned. Night terrors of children, with grinding of teeth in sleep.
Child screams, moans and cries. Somnambulism. It is a very good medicine for
restlessness and sleeplessness due to worry & grief, loss of property or reputation,
from busi-ness embarrassments. Horrid illusions. Acute delirium.

15) Ailments from : Anger. Fright. Emotional disturbances. Worries. Business losses
& embarrassments. Sexual excesses. Sexual abuses.

PARTICULARS

Head :

Brain fag. There is heaviness, numbness feeling in head, violent headache particularly in occiput
with flushed face, throbbing of carotids and temporals, and feeling of fullness of head.

Gastrointestinal Symptoms :

Throat: Anaesthesia of fauces, pharynx and Larynx. Dys-phagia, esp. of liquids (Ign. Hyos.) Uvula
and fauces congested. Stomach : Vomiting with intense thirst, after each meal

Persistent hiccough.
Abdomen : Internal coldness of abdomen. Retraction of abdomen.
