362 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

7. The patient is very hungry; cannot eat enough, as hungry after eating as before,
Faintness in the stomach, with sinking feeling in epigastrium.

8. Discharge of flatus from vagina (Lyco., Nux mos., Sang.).

9. While walking seems to be walking in the air, when lying does not seem to touch
the bed.

10. Mind : Very forgetful, absent-minded; makes purchases and walks, away without
them ; forgets her own name. In writing makes mistakes; uses too many words, but
not the right one, omits the final letter. Cannot concentrate the mind to read or
study. Fears to be alone (Kali carb.), of dying, of becoming insane. The patient is
very much nervous, fears of falling downstairs. Despondent, hopeless, thinks her
disease is incurable; has not a friend living; nothing worth living for her; could weep
at any moment. Attack of rage with cursing and swearing at slightest provocation
(Lilium tig, Nitric acid, Anac.). _——

Another strange state is that when walking she seems to be on air and when lying
seems as if she is not on the bed and touching the floor. Visions of snakes. (Lach).

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Location: Mostly frontal headache, but it has also hot occipital headache; above the eyes, especially
of the left side.

Sensation: Sensation as if the brain were alternately contracted and relaxed.

Character of pain: Shifting pain, constantly flying from one part to another; changing from side to
side; every few hours or days; pain during the day, first on left side and then on other side.

* Aggravation: From turning the eyeball upwards and using the eyes for fine work, touch or
noise.

* Amelioration: By going into open air.

Nose :

Coryza with discharge of thick, white mucus. One nostril stuffed up and the other free and
The condition alternates one after another. The character of discharge is bloody, pus like, very much
acrid and causes rawness of lip and nose.

Throat :

Location: In diphtheria or tonsillitis, symptoms shift from one side to the other and again go to the
original side, and this condition alternates.

Sensation: Of lump in throat with constant desire to swallow.

Look of the throat: Shining, glazed appearance of the diphtheritic deposits with yellow
and white patches.

Character of pain: Throat is very much sensitive to touch both internally and externally.
