CONIUM MACULATUM

Poison Hemlock HAHNEMANN Umbelliferae

INTRODUCTION

This is yet another important spinal remedy
especially affecting the motor nerves, known as
the “Balm of Gilead”. Conium maculatum is the
remedy for the diseases of people of climacteric
age, especially of women, if the symptoms
correspond. What Conium is to the glands and
capillary system, Aconite is to the heart and
arterial system. In many cases, Conium may be
regarded as the “Aconite of chronic diseases.”

The plant contains the active principle,
conine, which is very poisonous. It is notorious as
an ingredient of the State poison of ancient
Greeks, Socrates was killed by Conium. This poisonous property, when potentised,
proves to be an excellent remedy, particularly suited to old men, old maids and old
bachelors and it was Hahnemann who first showed how the remedy could be utilised
safely as well as effectively.

CLINICAL

Bladder inflammation. Breast affection, Bronchitis, Cancer, Cataract, Chorea, Cough,
Eye affection, Glandular affection, Injury, Jaundice, Liver affection, Menstrual disorders,
Paralysis, Testicles, Tumours affection of, Ulcers, Vertigo, etc.

SPHERES OF ACTION

The seat of action of this remedy is centred on the nervous system, particularly motor
nerves first and later on the sensory nerves as well; heart, cardiovascular system, glands
and female genital organs.

PATHOGENESIS

It powerfully depresses motor nerves leading to paralysis of the muscles of the body
as far as voluntary and reflex motions are concerned. It causes paralysis of the motor
nerve filaments of the cerebrospinal system. The sensory nerves, spinal cord and brain
are affected later on. It depresses the vagus ganglia, resulting in fall of blood pressure
and quick pulse, but lowers the temperature. Its effect on glands causes induration and
hypertrophy.

CONSTITUTION

Make-up of the body: It is mostly suited to old men and women, old bachelors, during
and after climacteric age. Persons having debility and diseases caused by blow or fall.

237
