Millefolium 421

—=_

Erigeron Canadensis : Haemorrhages of this remedy from the orifices of the body
is characterised by bright redness of the discharge. Haemorrhage from the uterus,
bloody lochia even leucorrhoea are usually attended with painful micturition or
urinary irritation and in some cases with irritation of the rectum. It can be used
with great success in cases of haematemesis due to ulceration or rupture of blood
vessels in the stomach, from bowels due to fissures, from urinary bladder due to
chronic cystitis, polyp or malignancy.

Ipecac : Ipecac is a great haemorrhagic remedy. Bleeding from all orifices of the
body, from uterus, bowels, kidney, nose, lungs etc. Character of blood is profuse and
steady flow of bright red blood. Nausea, oppressed breathing, thirstless-ness and
clean tongue are the concomitant with haemorrhage.

Nitric Acid : Nitric Acid is an excellent remedy for haemorrhage from anywhere
and every where. It may be from the mouth, nose, lungs, stomach, uterus after
miscar-riage or post partum, due to overexertion, chromic diseases, or broken down
cachectic condition.

The character of blood is bright red or may also be dark, but profuse and coagulable
with sticking, pricking, lancinat-ing and splinter like pain, relieved only by riding
in a carriage.

Phosphorus : It is a great anti-haemorrhagic remedy. Haemorrhage is caused by
degeneration of tissue and occurs from small injuries or cut. In this, character of
blood is pro-fuse, watery, bright red and non-coagulable. Bleeding from various
organs and parts of the body. Small wounds bleed much, pours out freely and then
ceases suddenly for a time, seen as in metrorrhagia, haemoptysis, haematemesis,
from nose, stomach, anus etc.

Trillium Pendulum : Trillium also has profuse, bright red and active or passive
haemorrhage from nose, lungs, kidneys and uterus etc. In uterine haemorrhage flow
is gushing, pro-fuse, bright red, aggravated by least movement. At climacteric the
flow occurs every two weeks ; paleness, faintness, dim-sight, palpitation,
obstruction and noise in ears, and painful sinking at pit of stomach are concomitant
symptoms.
