334 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Miasm: Psora is in the background.
Diathesis: Haemorrhagic diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

i

Most of its acute complaints commence with NAUSEA and VOMITING or all
complaints requiring Ipecac are attended more or less with nausea.

. Nausea constant, continuous and persistent with or without vomiting.
Nausea not relieved by vomiting.

. Thirstlessness runs through the whole drug (Nux-mos., Puls., Aethusa, Gels., Apis),
Clean tongue (Cina) with much saliva, but no thirst.

4, Bright red haemorrhage from natural orifices like nostrils, mouth and especially

from uterus.

5. Oppressed breathing especially with respiratory and/or gastric complaints. Anxiety

about the stomach is very much prominent.

6. Cold sweat on forehead (Carbo veg., Ver. alb.).
7. Wheezing and rattling of chest without expectoration especially in respiratory

troubles of earlyistage (late stage rattling, Antim tart.).

8. Desire for sweets and dainties. Aversion to all food.
9. Mind : The person is irritable and short tempered. Full of desire for many things

10.

about which he knows nothing, in other words, desire for a number of things
without knowing exactly what it is and what it is for.

The person is very much oversensitive, cannot endure east noise.
Children cry, how] and scream continuously without any cause.

Ailments from : Undigestible food, raisins, cakes, anger, reserved displeasure.
injuries, suppressed eruption, quinine.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : Clean tongue with no thirst.
Copious secretion of saliva; constantly obliged to swallow saliva, Often indicated in salivation during

pregnancy.

Stomach : Should be thought of in ALL DISEASES WHICH COMMENCE OR ARE ATTENDED

WITH continuous and persistent nausea and even vomiting but without any relief to the patient
such as, in gastritis, cholera, abdominal pain, dysentery, bronchitis, pneumonia, asthma and
intermittent fever etc. In such symptoms Ipecac tops the list.

Modality: Nausea not relieved by vomiting; vomiting of white glairy mucus in Jarge quantities or of

green jelly like mucus.
