278 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

¢ Location: There is gouty affection with oedema of lower limbs.
¢ Sensation: There is gouty soreness in the joints.

* Character of pain; There is aching pain in back, aching in bones of extremities, aching in
arms and writst with soreness of flesh. Gouty soreness and inflmed nodosities of joints.

There is dropsy of lower extremities, feet and ankles with severe BONE-ACHE AND BONE
PAIN

* Concomitants: Headache is associated with gouty affection.

Intermittent fever :
Eupatorium perfoliatum is adapted to various types of intermittent fever e.g., tertian, double tertian,
postponing and bilious fever.

Time: The time of paroxysms is generally between 7 and 9 a.m. Postponing type. i.e., one day at
7 a.m. the next day at 9 a.m. and then at 11 a.m. and so on.

Before the attack: There may be nausea and vomiting and sometimes there are spells of vomiting
of bile. There is great thirst for several hours before the fever.

During the attack: There is extremely severe chill. Shivering runs down the back and spreads from
the back to the extremities. There is SORENESS and pulsation in the back of the head. Violent pain in
the occiput and back before and during chill.

During the chill, the patient wants to cover up the whole body. There is bitter vomiting at the close
of chill.
There is bruised feeling as if broken all over the body, bone pain affecting back, chest, lirnbs,

especially the wrists which feel as if dislocated. The more general and severe the pain, the better it is
indicated and adapted.

There is insatiable thirst before and during chill and fever. The patient knows that chill is
coming because he cannot drink enough. He has violent thirst but the shivering becomes worse from
drinking. So he dares not drink cold water. With- fever there is bursting type of headache. There is sweat
which relieves all the symptoms except headache.

Bryonia is its nearest analogue having free sweat but there, pain keeps the patient quiet while
Eupatorium has scanty sweat and pains make the patient restless.
General Modalities :

Agaravation: Periodically and in open air.
Amelioration: Conversation, by getting on hands and knees, sweat (except in headache).

Relations :
Compare: Bryonia. Podo.., Iris.
Is followed well by: Natrum mur., Sepia.
