nux Vomica 455

a

Gout, Haemorrhoids, Headache, Heart affection, Hernia, Labour, Liver affections,
Locomotor ataxia, Lumbago, Menstrual disorers, Paralysis, Pregnancy disorders, Sleep,
Tenesmus, Throat and Lung affections, Urinary disorders, Vertigo, etc.

SPHERES OF ACTION

Although every organ is susceptible to the action of Nux vomica, it predominantly
acts on spinal cord, motor and sensory centres, brain, gastro-intestinal tract, respiratory
organs, cardiovascular system, genito-urinary organs.

PATHOGENESIS

By its action on the spinal cord, brain, motor and sensory nerve centres, a condition
of EXCESSIVE IRRITATION AND EXCITABILITY is produced which causes muscular
incoordination and paralysis. It acts on the organs and their nutrition, thereby the
secretions are altered, functions are perverted and the organic; substances change. A
long chain of symptoms set in presenting an accurate picture of gastric, hepatic and
intestinal affections. It irritates the mucous membrane of alimentary tract, thereby
producing dyspepsia like symptoms and stimulate constipation, diarrhoa, dysentery, etc.
Affections of the respiratory system result in dry catarrhal condition, obstruction of nose
and cough. It stimulatesthe vasomotoricentre and thus gives rise to blood pressure, heart
symptoms etc.

CONSTITUTION

Make-up of the body: Nux vomica is ideally suited to thin spare subjects, with dark
hair and dark complexion, who lead a sedentary life, nervous, extremely susceptible to
external impressions, habituated to overstudy, debauches, zealous and hypochondriac.
People of all walks of life, from the highest to the lowest standard, richest or poorest,
civilised or unciuilsed.

Temperament: Bilious, sanguine, irritable and impatient temperament.

“Nux is chiefly successful with persons of an ardent character; of an irritable.
impatient temperament, disposed to anger, spite or deception"—says Hahnemann.

Relation with heat and cold: Nux vom. is a very CHILLY remedy.
Miasm: Definitely psora isin the background as the originator of all the troubles.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. It is the LEST REMEDY TO COMMENCE TREATMENT of cases that have been
unduly drugged by other schools as an antidote to the bad-effects.

2. Fof all consequences and results arising from and incidental to modem life, people
of all walks of life age, sex and temperament.

3. Oversensitiveness runs through the whole remedy. He is very sensitive to
external impressions such as light, noise, odour, touch, pain, cold, music, ete.
Hypersensitive and over-impressionable.

4. Debauches of thin, irritable nervous disposition, liable to indigestion and hepatic

troubles.
ff
