HEPAR SULPHUR

Sulphurate of Lime HAHNEMANN (CaS)

INTRODUCTION

Hepar sulph. is a medicine possessing a place
of importance no less than Nux vomica, even in
the smallest homoeopathic domestic case.
Hahnemann’s Hepar sulphuris areum is
prepared by a mixture of equal parts of finely
powdered shells and pure flowers of sulphur,
kept for ten minutes at a uniform heat. From this
the potencies are prepared. Hepar has gained a
fame to be a member of one of the celebrated
“Boenninghausen’s Group Powders” others being Aconite and Spongia, all in 200th

potency.

‘Kini Asthma, Boils, Breast affection, Bronchitis, Burns, Carbuncles, Chilblain,
Chlorosis, Cold, Consumption, Cough, Diarrhoea, Ear affection, Eczema, Erysipelas, Eye
affection, Glandular swellings, Headache, Hoarseness, Jaundice, Laryngitis,
Leucorrhoea, Liver affections, Throat and Lung affections, Marasmus, Menstrual
disorders, Pneumonia, Rheumatism, Skin affection, Suppuration, Urinary affection,
Urticaria, Whooping cough, etc.

N.B. : The author highlights how the letter “H” is appropriate in describing the
Hepar patient, as an aid to memory, as follows:

Hepar patient is hypersensitive mentally and physically, to touch, to pain and to cold
air. He is hyper impulsive and heavily sweating, hasty in speech and drinking. He has
hoarseness in the morning. Hépar hastens suppuration and cure and is ameliorated by

heat, hot fomentation and covering.

SPHERES OF ACTION

Hepar sulph. acts especially upon lymphatic, glandular system, skin, respiratory
organ, mucous membrane. Of course, the nerves are not left behind from getting affected
by this drug. It is a powerful remedy affecting both mind and body. This is a first class
irritant (or temper, nerves and tissues. Hepar is hyper in all its actions.

PATHOGENESIS

It produces enlargement of lymphatic glands, suppuration, ulcers, eczmatous
eruptions, unhealthy skin and a condition of non-healing moist eruption on the folds of
skin. It acts on nerves and causes GREAT IRRITABILITY, OVERSENSITIVENESS

310
