596 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Piles : Piles are very painful. It may be blind or bleeding. The blood is venous with itching and
burning in anus. Piles are dependent upon abdominal plethora. ANUS IS RED AND SORE.

Diarrhoea :
¢ Causation: Suppression of skin disease's and alcoholism.

¢ Time ; Early in the morning; DRIVING OUT OF BED EARLY IN THE MORNING as there is
lack of power in sphincter ani.-The patient runs to the closet immediately as soon as the desire is felt.

* Character: Involuntary and painless diarrhoea, The stool contains undigested food particles,
whitish, greenish, very much offensive and acrid. With stool, there is REDNESS OF ANAL ORIFICE.

Modality:
* Aggravation in early morning.
* Concomitants: Diarrhoea alternates with constipation, Respiratory symptoms.

Pneumonia :
Causation: Due to suppression of skin diseases.
Stage: In delayed resolution.
Location: Usually upper left lobe of the lung is affected.
Sensation: Chest feels heavy with oppression and burning sensation in chest.
Character of cough: Loose cough with much rattling of mucus.
Character of sputa: Greenish, purulent and sweetish expectoration.
Character of pain : There is stitching pain in the chest shooting through the back.
Dyspnoea in the middle of night with difficult respiration; wants windows open.
Modalities: Aggravation: At night and lying on back.
Amelioration: By lying on right side.
Note: Sulphur should be thought of in Jafe stage of pneumonia when carefully selectec
remedies fail to produce a favourable effect.
Female genital organs :
Menses : In dysmenorhoea arid menorrhagia.
Time: Too late.
Duration: Short.
Quantity: Scanty and sometimes it is profuse.

Character of blood: Very much black, thick, dark, acrid wherever it touches, it makes the parts
sore.

Concomitants: Mense is preceded by headache if suddenly stopped. With mense, there is fulness
with bearing down in pelvis towards genitals. This pressing down ts felt more acutely when she stands up.

Skin :

Sulphur is indicated in all sorts of skin eruptions, vesicular, pustular, etc., especially in the skin
affections that have been treated by medicated soaps and washes, suppressed by ointment and
local medication.
