403

medorrhinum

Duration: Long lasting.

Character of blood: Very dark and clotted, offensive, stains the cloth and difficult to wash off (Mag.
carb.).

Concomitants: Breast and nipple are very painful, sensitive and sore to touch. Breasts espciaally the
Nipples are icy cold to touch during menses while rest of the body is warm.

Urinary system : In renal colic, there is intense pain in ureter with sensation of passing renal stone
(Lyco., Berb. Vul. and Sars). When urinating, there is painful tenesmus in bladder.

Character of urine: Urine is high coloured with smell of ammonia,

Nocturnal enuresis in children with history of gonorrhoea in parents. Passes large quantity of urine
every night. Aggravation from over work, extremes of heat and cold. When the best selected remedies
fail to relieve.

Extremities : There is INTENSE BURNING IN FEET AND HANDS, Wants them uncovered and”
fanned (Lachesis, Puls., Chamomilla and sulphur).

Intense restlessness and fidgety feeling in legs and feet (Zincum). Pain in legs from hip to knees,
only when walking; aches during night, preventing steep. During and electrical thunderstorm, there is

terrible burning and aching in legs and arms,

Rheumatism :

In gout and rheumatism, caused by maltreated or suppressed gonorrhoea, this great remedy can be
thought of.

Rheumatism and arthritic pain as a sequelae of suppressed gonorrhoea with sensation of constriction
and tightening feeling all over the body. Sore as if bruised.

Location: Rheumatism of both the shoulders and arms (Right, Sanguinaria. Left, Ferrum met.). Pains
extend; to fingers. Painful stiffness of every joint in body. Along with this, mere is deformity of finger
joints, ankles are large and puffy, swelling and painful stiffness of ankles. Great tenderness of heels and
balls of feet. Swelling and puffiness of all joints.

Modalities:

Aggravation: During days before a thunderstorm and when thinking of pain.

Amelioration: At sea-shore and during damp weather.

Baby :

Baby having sycotic background. Dwarfish baby with stunted growth (Psoric baby—Baryta carb.).
Mentally the baby is very idiotic but physically weak. Pale rachitic with enlarged-lymphatic glands all over
the body.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: Most of the ailments are worse when thinking of them, from sunrise to sunset,
heat, thunderstorm, covering, stretching, least movement and sweat.

Amelioration: At seashore (rev. of Nat. mur.), lying on stomach and damp weather (Caust., Nux
vom., Hepar).
Relations :

Antidoted by: Ipecac.

Compatible: Sulphur.
