448 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

* Character of stool: Great desire for stool, but passes little at a time. There is ineffectual urging
for stool. Feels that a large amount of stool remains in the rectum to be expelled, but he is unable to do
so. Stool may be stained with blood or mucus, undigested food particles. Diarrhoea is acid; acrid, slimy
and watery. Violent cutting pain after stool, lasting for hours (Rat,, Sulph.),

Piles : There may also be bleeding piles, protruding with every stool. The blood may be bright red
and profuse.

| Character of pain: The piles have burning, lancinating, PRICKING PAIN WITH SPLINTER LIKE
SENSATION. There may also be cracks and fissures in rectum with similar pain and bleeding. Violent
cutting pains after stool lasting for hours.

Urine :

The urine of a Nitric acid patient is very PUNGENT, STRONG SMELLING LIKE HORSE'S URINE.
The urine may be scanty or dark brown or putrid, looks like remains of a cider barrel. The striking
peculiarity is that the urine: is COLD WHEN IT PASSES OUT, but while urinating, there may be smarting
and burning pain in the urethra. Occasionally there may also be haematuria with bloody mucus and
purulent discharges. The external urethral meatus may be cracked and fissured which is very painful like
that from a SPLINTER.

Haemorrhage :

Nitric acid is an excellent remedy for haemorrhage from anywhere and everywhere. It may be from
the mouth, nose, lungs, stomach, haematuria, haemoptysis or haematemesis, or from rectum, and bowels
or uterus after miscarriage, or post-partum, due to over-exertion, chronic diseases or broken down
cachetic condition and constitution.

The character of the blood is bright red or may also be dark, but profuse and coagulable with
STICKING, PRICKING, LANCINATING AND SPLINTER LIKE PAIN, relieved only by riding in a
carriage.

Skin :

In Nitric acid, the skin shows various manifestations after abuse of mercury or syphilis, or both or
engrafted on a scrofulous or sycotic base.

The skin is dry or scaly, yellow, with deep cracks and fissures.

The junction of skin and mucous membrane is the place for which the Nitric acid has got great
affinity. It may be on the lips, corners of mouth, nose, eyes, anus or vagina or urethra. At these places.
there are CRACKS AND FISSURES WITH LANCINATING PRICKING, SPLINTER LIKE PAIN.

There may be profuse bleeding from these outlets, cracks and fissures or from ulcers.

There may also be easily bleeding ulcers in corners of mouth, in the mouth, cervix or anywhere and
everywhere with splinter-like pain. The ulcers bleed easily on slightest contact. The ulcers have zig-zag
irregular margin and edges; base looks like raw fresh and exuberant granulations.

From these ulcers, a thin, offensive and acrid discharge of abrown or dirty, yellowigh-green colour
comes out. Rarely there may also be laudable pus.

Another important skin manifestation of Nitric acid is development of warts, condylomata, whether
sycotic or syphilitic, on various parts of the body. These warts may be large, jagged or pedunculated and
bleed easily on washing or on slightest touch there may also be moist, oozing, offensive and acrid
discharges from diem with typical pricking splinter like pain.
