14 Text Book of MATERIA MEDicq

11.

12.

13.

14.
15.

——

are. intolerable, they drive him crazy; he becomes very restless at night. The pain jg
often associated with numbness (Platina, Chamomilla).

. Excessive sensitiveness to the least touch.

. Unquenchable thirst for large quantity of cold water.
10.

There is active haemorrhage from any part of the body, both internal and external,
uterus or other places in stout plethoric patients. The character of the blood is pure,
and bright red accompanied by fear of death and nervous excitability.

The face of Aconite patient is red or red and pale alternately. Anxious and
frightened pxpression. Sensation of face growing or swelling. On rising, the red face
becomes deathly pale and he feels dizzy.

Aggravation : In the evening and especially at night.
Amelioration : By uncovering and in the OPEN AIR.

Aconite is the drug for the congestive stage of inflammation before localisation takes
place.

Paralysis from exposure to dry cold wind (Caust).
Mind : Aconite patients have peculiar mental’symptoms which are as follows :

There is great fear and anxiety of mind, with great nervous , excitability, which
run through the whole drug. The very face of Aconite patient expresses the fear.
The Aconite patient has fear of death, in any acute disease; fear of darkness, fear of
bed, fear of ghost, fear of going out. Fear to go into a crowd where there is any
excitement or many people. Fear to cross street, fear to cross a bridge, fear of death
in pregnancy.

There are numerous remedies having fear of death, but the peculiarity of Aconite is
clairvoyance i.e. the patient predicts the date and even the hour of death. Ifa
clock is in the patient’s room, he will say that when the hands reach a particular
point, he will be nothing but a corpse. This symptom is very striking and peculiar to
Aconite only. It is the Aconite patient who calls his friends around him and takes
leave of them. Such a mental state occurring in the course of any illness calls for
Aconite only.

The patient seems to have been threatened with sudden, violent death but recovery
is also very quick like a great storm, only to be quiet very soon.

The patient is very much restless and he does everything in great haste; must
change position quite often; everything startles him, The Aconite patient tosses
about in agony and his life is rendered. miserable.

Music is unbearable for Aconite patient; it makes her sad (Sabina; Thuja, Graphites,
Natrum sulph., Natrum carb.).

This mental anxiety, worry and fear accompany most of the trivial ailments. Almost
certainly this remedy should never be given in case where the sickness is borné
with patience and calmness. Mental calmness contra-indicates Aconite. If Aconite is
to be thought of, there must be mental uneasiness, worry, anxiety and feat

|

