7 541

6. Haemorrhages where blood is fluid and clots together.

7, Ailments from : Abortion, premature labour, haemorrhage from uterus, retained
placenta, etc.

PARTICULARS

menses :
It is useful in menorrhagia, metrorrhagia or dysmenorrhoea.
Quantity: Too profuse.
Duration: Too long lasting.

Character of blood: Flow in paroxysms, which is too protracted. Flow is bright red, liquid and
intermingled with clot i.e. partly fluid and partly clotted, especially in those ladies who have
menarche very early

Character of pain: During the menses the lady suffers from bearing down, labour-like pain
which is drawing in character in small ol back especially FROM SACRUM TO PUBES.

Modality: Aggravation FROM LEAST MOTION, but flow ceases when walking about (Clarke).

Concomitants: Discharges of blood between periods with sexual excitement. The lady gives the
history of rheumatism especially in lower limbs. There may also be history of gonorrhoea. Such ladies
have GREAT INTOLERANCE OF MUSIC.

Abortion :

Sabina is especially indicated in those ladies who have menarche very early in their lives having the
tendency to miscarriage, abortion, especially at third month (puls., Secale cor., Belladonna) with severe
pain in the abdomen. There is shooting-pain from back to front, bearing down labour-like pain FROM
SACRUM TO PUBES.

During abortion: The striking features in this drug at the time of abortion are flow of liquid, bright
red, copious blood, which is intermingled with clot; in other words, the flow is partly fluid and partly
clotted. This type of symptoms occur over and over again.

After abortion: There is inflammtion of ovaries and uterus after premature labour or abortion. There
is violent pain through ovaries and uterus. Aching pain in the back especially in sacrum and thence to
pubes as if broken, as if bones were separated (opposite to sepia, where the pain is from front to back).

There is most violent, tearing, throbbing pain with copious haemorrhage accompained by uterine
colic, RETAINED PLACENTA, ATONY OF UTERUS, AND VESICULAR MOLE.

At the time of climacteric: At the time of climacteric period the patient has repeated uterine

haemorrhage of bright red blood, intermingled with clot and pain from sacrum to pubes. She becomes
exhausted and anaemic.

N.B. : The shooting pain from back to front and from sacrum to pubes with hae norrhages are the
striking features of corroborations In abortion and haemorrhage. In abortion, it differs from
BELLADONNA which is also an important remedy for abortion especially at the third month. But
Belladonna has also got the same bearing down pain with bright red blood, followed by expulsion of clot,
But the Belladonna state is not like that of Sabina. In Belladonna, there are hyperaesthesia and
Versensitiveness to touch, jar and motion. The patient will not allow anyone to touch even the nurse.
