728 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Risus sardonicus (Stram.) The semblance of a grin (Smile broadly so as to show the teeth),
caused by facial spasm especially in tetanus. Risus means ‘a laugh’,

Rocking (Kali, c.) Moving gently to and fro.
Romantic girls (Cocc,) Sentimental or emotional or visionary girls.

Rose Cold (Sang.) Paroxysmal-rhinorrhoea (running of the nose) caused by allergy of rose
pollen.

Ruddy people (Aur. M.) People having red skin.

Rules of preparing acids (Carb. A.) According to Homoeopathic pharmacopoea, distilled
water is mostly used for preparing medicines from acid sources. As for example Acid pic,
Acid oxal, Acid Hydrocya-nic, Acid Nit, Acid phos, Acid Sulph etc. But, as Carbolic acid is
not soluble in distilled water, it is prepared with the help of ‘Alcohol’. This is an exception
to the rule of preparing acid.

Saddle (Sep.) Leather seat for riding on horse. ~

Salpingitis (Med.) Inflammation of the Fallopian tube or sometime that of the Eustachian
tube also.

Salvation (Lil. T., Psor.) Saving of the soul.

Sanguine temperament or constitution (Arm. M., Aster., Aur. M., Hyos., Plat., Nux V.,
Phos., Sil., Ver. A.) The person having excess amount of blood. Plethoric; having a red
complexion, light hair and eyes and a quick but not lasting temper.

Sanious liquid blood (Sec. c.) Having the character of thin, foetid, seropurulent bloody
discharge from wound or ulcer.

Sanious pus (Phyt.) Thin foetid, seropurulent discharge from a wound.

Sapraemia (Pyr.) A general bodily reaction to circulatory toxins and breakdown products of
saprophytic organisms, derived from one or more foci in the body.

Satyriasis (Pic. A.) Excessive sexual excitement in male.

Scarlatina (Amman. C., Apoc., Psor., Sang, Tereb.) Scarlet fever; an acute exanthematous
disease, marked by fever and other constitutional disturbances and a generalized
eruption of closely aggregated points or small macules of a bright red colour, followed by
desquamation.

Sciatica (Rhustox, Coloc.) Neuralgia of the sciatic nerve, felt at the back of the thigh,
Scirrhous (Apis,, Med., Spig.,) A hard cancerous tumour due to overgrowth of fibrous tissue.

Scirrhous carcinoma (Med,) Fibrous cancer; a cancer in which indu-ration has occurred
through overgrowth of fibrous connective tissue in the stroma, the opposite of medullary
cancer.

