Plumbum 493

Colic : Painter's colic after lead poisoning. Many patients cannot sleep in a newly painted room.
They come down with lead colic or the acute affections of lead. Many people are very sensitive to lead.

¢ Location: Colic emanating from the central point in and around in and around the navel
and radiating to all parts of the body.

¢ Sensation: Sensation AS IF ABDOMINAL WALL WAS DRAWN BY A STRING TO THE
SPINE.

¢ Character of pain: The pain is of neuralgic type and spasmodic in character. It is sharp,
constantly becoming acute by paroxysms.

The patient feels that some one is twisting and clawing at his intestines and this pain from the region

of the navel radiates upward to the chest and down-ward to the pubes,

There is violent colic with excessive pain in abdomen. Sensitiveness in abdomen at night which
causes the patient to stretch violently for hours; much stretch in every direction.

There may be intussusception with strangulated, femoral, inguinal or unbilical hernia with colic. There
may be vomiting oflaecal matter.

Delirium alternates with colic.
Modalities:

e Aggravation: By motion, by touch, towards evening and night.

¢ Amelioration: Temporary relief from hard pressure and rubbing.
Concomitants: The colic is almost always accompanied by obstinate constipation.
Constipation :

* Causation: Due to paresis of the intestines or from impaction of faeces.

* Time: Usually during pregnancy.

® Character of stool: Stool is hard, lumpy, black like sheep-dung (Chel., Op.) with great urging
for stopl. There is obstructed evacuation from impaction of faeces: with dryness of excretion.

Plurnbum should be thought of when Platina fails.

Paralysis :
Plumbum is a good PARALYSES. It is adapted to diseases of the spinal orgin.

Causation: Paralysis originates from over exertion of the extensor muscles as in piano players,
muscular atrophy, from sclerosis of spinal system.

Location: Paralysis of single muscle or group of muscles, especially of extensors.
Symptoms of paralysis; Muscular atrophy from sclerosis of spinal cord.
Paralysis of single muscle or a group of muscles especially extensors.

Cannot raise or lift anything with the hand.

Excessive and rapid emaciation of the affected parts.

Paralysis with hyperaesthesia followed by anaesthesia.

Paralysis with cramping pain.
