115

Belladonna

10.

11.
12.

13.
14.
15.

16.

17.

Belladonna is a GREAT PAIN REMEDY, the characters of which are (a) pain comes
suddenly, lasts indefinitely or goes away suddenly ; (b) pain is usually in short
attacks; (c) burning and throbbing character of the PAIN WITH REDNESS OF THE
FACE AND EYES, fulness of the head and throbbing of carotids; (d) pain runs from
above e.g. head to downwards (Silicea and Gelsemium have pain running up the
back).

The patient is very much sleepy, but cannot sleep (Cham., Stram., Opium.),

Belladonna patients are very much entertaining, jolly, well behaved and social
when they are well, but becomes very violent and often delirious when they fall sick.

In Belladonna patients, sweat, if at all found, is only on the covered parts.
Generally the patient is not thirsty, especially in fever.

The complaints of Belladonna patient are aggravated by touch, jar and motion,
draught of air and heat of sun; after 3 p.m., lying down and uncovering and
ameliorated by rest, standing or sitting erect and in a warm room.

Mind : Belladonna is an excellent remedy for the delirious condition brought on by
cerebral congestion. The cardinal mental symptoms are as follows:

Great excitement and VIOLENCE run through the whole mental sphere of this
wonderful remedy.

The patient is very delirious with constant cerebral congestion.

Belladonna is one of the trio of delirious remedies; others being Hyoscyamus and
stramonium. There are many other remedies having delirium, but these three top
the list. The most characteristic feature of Belladonna delirium is compared to those
other two of the trio is the decided evidence of an upsurge of blood to the brain.
When the throbbing of carotids, the heat, redness and congestion of face arid
conjunctiva pass away, the delirium also subsides in proportion. However,
Belladonna may have delirium with pale face also, as it alternates but that is an
exceptional case.

The patient has furious rage and anger. He spits, bites and strikes those around
him.

He picks up the bed clothes, tears them to pieces and throws them off. He breaks
into fits of laughter and gnashes his teeth, presenting a picture of absolute and
violent insanity.

The patient imagines seeing various things, such as ghosts, monsters, hideous
faces, various insects, black animals, dogs, wolves and dangerous wild animals.

There is great fear of unusual and imaginary things; wants to run away from them;
strange delusion, illusion and hallucination, with loss of consciousness.

He uses absurd language; anxiety with desire to flee, escape and hide.
In short, no remedy has more persistent and violent delirium than in Belladonna.

Aliments from : Exposure to draught of cold air, cold wind, hair’ cut, uncovering
the head, head getting wet, sun, summer complaints, taking sausage and wine.
