Tuberculinum — Bacilliunum 627

ee

Location: Headache is felt from right eye backwards to occiput.
Sensation: Sensation of an iron hoop around the head.

Character: Chronic tubercular headache. Pain is sharp, cutting and intense. School girl's sick
headache, with tubercular history.

Modality: Aggravation from eye strain, study, slight mental exertion, when using eyes in close work
and when the glasses fail to give the expected benefit.

Meninatis :
Mode of onset: Meningitis of acute and sudden onset.
Parts affected: Cerebrum and the base of brain.

Character: There is acute cerebral or basilar meningitis, with threatened effusion. Nocturnal
hallucination wakes the patient from sleep; frightened at night cind starts screaming.

Tuberculinum is indicated when the best selected remedies like Apis. Helleborus or Sulphur fail to
relieve.

Respiratory organs :

Tubercular deposits begin in apex of lungs, usually the Jeft lung (Phos., Sulphur). There is cavity in
lungs with sudden haemorrhage. Deposits of tubercle in pleura or tubercular pleurisy and abscess in lungs.

Cough : Hard, dry hacking cough, aggravation after sleep with profuse sweat and loss of weight.

Diarrhoea :

Time: Early in the morning.
Character: Sudden imperative discharge with great force. Stool is dark, brown, watery and very
offensive.

Concomitants: Progressive emaciation while eating well, There is great weakness with profuse
night sweat.

Menses :
Tardy first menses.
Time: Too early.
Quantity: Too profuse
Duration: Too long lasting.
Character: There is no particular character of blood.

Concomitants: Frightful dysmenorrhoea, tardy in starting. Pain increases with the establishment of
flow. Tubercular history. Benign mammary tumours.

Skin :

In Tuberculinum, skin shows the following symptoms:-

(1) Boils: Crops of small boils and acne, which are Intensely painful; successively appear in nose,
WITH GREEN FOEITID PUS (Secale cor.) in patients with tubercular history,

(2) Eczema: Eczema over the entire body, oozing type especially behind ears, within the hair, in
folds of skin, etc. intense itching and bran-like scales, with rawness and soreness, fiery red skin.

Aggravation at night, when undressing and from bathing.

lia
