Graphites 299

Miasm: Psora is in the background.
Diathesis: Tubercular and cancerous diathesis.

1.

omonrtkina on

oe

Especially adapted to woman of climacteric age, generally inclined to obesity, who
suffers from habitual constipation and with history of delayed menstruation.

. Amarked characteristic of Graphites is rush of blood to head with flushed face

or rush of blood to head with distention and flatulence.

. Cracks and fissures on end of fingers and toes, nipples, labial commissures, anus,
etc. gt Cmee Mam”

. From the moist skin eruptions oozes a watery, transparent and sticky

fluid. Whenever such eruptions are found Graph, is in all probability the remedy.

. Disposition to delayed menstruation.

. Gastralgia better by eating or by drinking hot milk.

. Sexual debility from sexual abuse; and decided aversion to coition.
; Hears better in noise and when riding in a carriage.

. Music makes her weep. She thinks of nothing but death.

10.

Desire for hot milk which relieves constipation and gastric; complaints. AVERSION
to meat, fish, salt, cooked food and sweets.

Mind : Ailments from grief and vexation.

There is great dread of mental and physical work, with, excessive depression of
mind. Patient is very sad; thinks of nothing but death and salvation. But there is
changeable mood. The patient can remember past events, but forgets the recent
occurrences.

Sensation of a cobweb over face and forehead: tries hard to brush it off. MUSIC
MAKES HER WEEP and also increases her sufferings. The patient is excessively
cautious, timid, hesitating and unable to decide about anything. She is always sad
and despondent.

. Ailments from : Grief and vexation; suppression of skin eruptions; extremes of heat

and cold; overlifting.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: From grief, vexation, extremes of heat and cold.

Location: Congestive pain especially in the occiput; extends to the nape of neck, stitching pain in
temples.

Character of headache: Pain as though the head were numb, violent headache as if the Head would
burst, congestive, constriqtive and stitching pain.

Modality: Aggravation at night and during menstruation and relieved by lying down,

i
