ACONITUM NAPELLUS

Monkshood HAHNEMANN Ranunculaceae
INTRODUCTION

There are several remedies derived, proved
and established from Aconite family, the most
important of which is Aconitum Napellus. Aconite
is one of the deadliest and most rapidly acting
poison; yet, through Hahnemann’s discoveries, it
has been transformed into one of the best of the
nurseries. It is one of Clarke’s A, B, C, Nurseries,
others being Belladonna and Chamomilla.
Aconite causes Turmoil in circulation,
belladonna causes Turmoil in brain and
Chamomilla causes Turmoil in temperament.
Had it not been for the wonderful curative power
which Master Hahnemann found and developed
from this wild poisonous plant, we would have
been lagging behind and missed a lot in the
effective treatment of many acute diseases in
their initial stage. Aconite is a short and’quick
acting superficial remedy for acute and most
distressing conditions. Aconite is like a great storm; it comes Suddenly and violently,
sweeps over and passes away in the same manner. With the action of the remedy, the
storm is over. And in this powerful drug, we find a ready solution to many of our staring
problems encountered when dealing with many diseases, provided they are in the initial
stage and the symptoms corroborate.

CLINICAL

In the initial stage of any acute diseases such as Apoplexy, Asthma, Chest affection,
Chicken-pox, Cholera, Convulsion, Epilepsy, Croup., Cough, Diarrhoea, Dropsy,
Dysentery, Amenorrhoea, Dysmenorrhoea, Bad effects of fear & fright, Fever, Headache,
Heart affections, Inflammation, Menses, Pneumonia, Suppression of urine, Vertigo, etc.

SPHERES OF ACTION

Perhaps there may not be any organ, tissue or system in the body which is not
susceptible to the action of this remedy. Still it predominently acts on cerebro-spinal
nervous system, brain, serous and mucous membrane, blood, cardio-vascular system, etc.

PATHOGENESIS

Aconite causes “Turmoil in circulation.” It is capable of irritating brain and cerbro-
spinal nervous system producing exalted activity on the circulation, paralysing the

12

