Bryonia Alba 137

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1, All complaints are worse from motion : This “worse from motion” in Bryonia is
such a constant symptom with all sufferings and in all parts of the body, as to have
become a GENERAL, ALONG WITH AMELIORATION BY ABSOLUTE REST AND
PRESSURE,

2. It is a very persistent remedy. All complaints develop slowly and have an insidious
beginning (Gels).

8. Bryonia causes dryness of all the mucus membranes e.g. lips, mouth, nose,
respiratory tract, alimentary tract and thereby produces some of the most
characteristic symptoms, e.g. DRY, HARD AND KNOTTY STOOL; DRY
SPASMODIC COUGH, STITCHING PAIN, ETC.

4. Great thirst for large quantity of cold water at long intervals; great appetite, eats
voraciously,

5. Stitching pain runs through the whole of Bryonia which is relieved by absolute rest
and pressure and by lying on painful side.

6. Bryonia is gourmand (Nux, an epicure).

7. Dropsical effusion into the serous and synovial memberane, resulting in pleurisy,
rheumatic arthritis etc.

8. Desire: Desires for things, which when offered are immediately refused (China,
Cham., Kreosote, Staph.); oysters, sweets, coffee, cold acid drinks and sour drink.

Aversion: To milk, rich food, fatty and greasy food.

9. Most complaints aggravate in summer and by heat; symptoms aggravate after a
meal.

10. There is intolerance of vegetable food.

11. Vicarious menstruation; nose bleed when menses should appear (phos.); blood
spitting or haemoptysis.

12. Breasts are heavy, of a stony hardness, pale but hard, hot and painful; MUST
SUPPORT THEM WITH HAND TO prevent least motion.

13. Mind : The patient is very morose and ill humoured; exceedingly irritable and
inclined to be angry. There are great anxiety and mental depression, Delirium, talks
about daily business; worse at night; desires to escape from bed and wants to go
home, although the patient is at home. Constant motion of the left arm and leg.
Desires for things which are refused when offered. Weakness of mind, as if he would
faint.

14. Ailments from Anger, chagrin, mortification; complaints after taking cold or
getting hot in summer; when the days are hot and nights are cold; cold food and
drink; from suppression of discharges and skin eruptions.
