Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Remittent fever :

Causation: Due to heat of sun, warmth or cold.
Onset: Insidious, slow and gradual.

During fever: There are DULLNESS, DIZZINESS, AND DROWSINESS accompanied with languor,
muscular weakness and desire for absolute rest. Great heaviness of head and limbs.

The tongue is trembling with complete absence of thirst.
There is severe headache which is relieved by profuse urination. The pulse is full and flowing.
Stuporous conditions may appear in late stage.

After fever: There may be paralysis of various group of muscles.
Gels, has also proved prophylactic against Influenza.

Paralysis :
Gelsemium is a great paralyser.

Character: The onset of the paralysis is gradual. It produces a general state of paresis, mental and
physical. “TREMOR” is the key-note of the remedy, While the mind is absolutely sluggish, the whole
body, particularly the muscular system, is relaxed. The limbs are so HEAVY and painful that the patient
can hardly move them. There is complete relaxation and prostration of the whole muscular system
with entire motor paralysis. Weakness and trembling of tongue, hands, legs and entire body. LACK
OF MUSCULAR COORDDNATION IS WELL MARKED; CONFUSED; MUSCLES REFUSE TO OBEY
THE WILL. Locomotor ataxia and paraplegia are successfully treated by this great remedy.

The same paretic coridition is present in eyelids, causing ptosis and diplopia; in oesophagus,
producing difficulty in swallowing; in the anus which remains relaxed and open. There is hysterical
dysphagia or aphonia.

For post-diphtheritic paralysis. Gels, is an infallible remedy. In this case, there is paretic condition
of oesophagus and muscles of deglutition so that when swallowing something, it does not go down but
goes up into the nose through which it comes out.

Modality: The paralytic condition is aggravated by damp weather, before a thunderstorm, mental
emotion, excitement, bad news and when thinking of his ailments.

Concomitants : The patient is dull, dizzy, and drowsy. Tremor and trembling everywhere with ho
thirst.
General Modalities :

Aggravation:; Heat, damp weather, before a thunderstorm, mental emotion or excitement, bad news,
tobacco smoking, when thinking of his ailments and at 10 a.m.

Amelioration: Profuse urination and continued motion.

Relations :
Compare: Baptisia in threatening typhoid fever. Ipecac, in intermittent fever after suppression by
quinine, :
Antidoted by: Coffea, Dig., Nux mos,
Antidotes: Mag. phos.
