506 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation : Headache |s from overloading the stomach, fatty diet and stooping.
Location: One sided headache especially in the forehead and temples.
Sensation : One sided headache especially in the forehead.

Character: Bruised pain, stupefying headache. There is great heaviness on stooping. Dullness of
head; headache with aching pain in the eyes. Throbbing, pressive headache, pressive and constrictive
pain in temples; violent pain on one side as if a nail was driven in beating, jerking and lacerating
headache.

Modalities: Aggravation by stooping, lying down or exposure to cold,
Relief by sitting, in the morning and by pressure.

Concomitants: Confusion in head, vertigo as if intoxicated with nausea and inclination to vomit.
Apoplexy with unconsciousness: violent beating in head, pain in the eyeballs.

Eyes:

There is dryness of eyes and lids; with sensation as if darkened by mucous. Pressure as from sand in
eyes. Conjunctivitis with PROFUSE, THICK, YELLOW, BLAND DISCHARGE; BURNING AND
ITCHING in the eyes and inflammation of eyes, margins of eyelids with lachrymation and nightly
agglutination. There may be styes, especially on upper eyelids with itching, biting and burning. Opthalmia
may also be treated successfully with Pulsatilla.

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : Mouth is dry in the morning without thirst. Bad taste and smell from mouth in the morning.
Accumulation of saliva in the mouth.
Saliva gives sweetish taste; constant spitting of frothy cotton like mucous (Nux mos.).

Tongue : Loss of taste: nothing tastes good. In catarrh, the tongue is white or yellow and coated
with tenacious mucus.

Tongue is parched dry, yet no thirst. Tongue feels too broad and too large; edge of tonque feels
sore as if scalded.

Toothache worse in morning and at night and in a warm room, Pain in gums.

Stomach :
* Causation: Eating rich and fatty food, fruits, ice-cream, tea, worms in case of children; weakness
of stornach, indigestion and suppressed menses.
The above factors may cause nausea, vomiting, epigastric pain, abdominal colic and diarrhoea.
* Nausea: Felt in the throat as if worms are crawling, nausea may end in vomiting.
Vomiting of blood or of bilious matter. Therefore, the vomitus is green with pale face and
chilliness; but not thirst.

* Epigastric pain: There is pain in the pit of stomach, The character of pain and the
accompanying symptoms are just as mentioned above under item No. 4 of the guiding symptoms.

There is sensation of weight as from a stone In the stomah, about an hour after eating. Pressure
in pit of stomach after meals with growing distress when stomach is empty.
