114 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

nerves, resulting in congestion of blood vessesls, heart and consequently reflex symptoms
are produced.

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Since Belladonna is more or less an acute remedy, there is no

serious importance to be attached to its constitution. However, it is adapted to bilious,
plethoric persons with red face and to a condition in them of local plethora, i.e,

inflammatory state with throbbing pain and redness; and also to those having lymphatic
constitution with fine complexion and delicate skin.

Temperament: Bilious, lymphatic and nervous temperament.

Relation with heat and cold: Chilly patient.
Miasm: Psora is in the background.
Diathesis: Tubercular diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1.
2.

Belladonna is predominantly a right sided remedy.

Acute “SUDDEN and VIOLENT” onset is very characteristic of this drug. This
aspect of the symptom is invariably present in every disease requiring Belladonna.

. “Congestion” is the key note of Belladonna. (Tension is the keynote of Aconite). As

a result of its action on the brain a state of active congestion is produced, resulting
in furious excitement, irritability, convulsion, delirium and pain. Consequently,
there is FLUSHED FACE, THROBBING CAROTIDS, HARD AND BOUNDING
PULSE, rush of blood to head with wild delirium. Congestion causes redness of the
face and eyes, rush of blood to head and face, throbbing of brain and carotids.

. “Redness” of Belladonna is very characteristic. Arising from congestion there is

great redness of the inflamed part in particular and in general, all over. The skin is
very red and shiny. Smooth redness of the surface occurs over the whole body.

. “Heat” is yet another peculiarity. Due to the congestion there is great heat,

especially at the congested and inflamed part. The heat is so severe that the
affected part imparts a burning sensation to the examining hand and the physician
is reflexly compelled to withdraw his hand.

. “Burning” sensation is another characteristic of Belladonna. There is intense

burning anywhere and everywhere, both internal and external such as in skin,
brain, mouth, throat, tonsils, stomach, liver, etc.

. Sensitiveness to touch of affected part is very well marked in this great remedy.

Cannot bear to be touched anywhere.

. Great dryness runs through the whole of this drug. This dryness is often associated

with heat, redness, burning and throbbing. -

. Along with the above sings of inflammation, swelling or oedema are also found. The

affected part is swollen, shiny, very red, hot and sensitive to touch.
