us Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

1. Gels. Symptoms such as cold, fever, headache develop several days after exposure
whereas those of Aconite come only a few hours after exposure.

2. Dulness, dizziness, drowsiness and trembnling or tremor are the key-note

symptoms of Gelsemium which run throughout the length and breadth of the
remedy.

8. “Tremor” is the key-note of this remedy. Tremor all over the body such as
trembling of tongue, hands, legs and of entire body.

4. Gelsemium is a GREAT PARALYSER. So there is complete relaxation and
prostration of whole muscular system with entire motor paresis and lastly

paralysis.

5. Gels. is a Great “Flu” remedy when chill runs up and down the spine with a feeling
of great weight and tiredness of the entire bdy and limbs. It has also proved to be a
prophylactic against “Flu” and cures its complications like paresis and paralysis
occurring after “Flu” In short, it is an excellent medicine for Influenza—before,
during and after.

6. General depression from heat of sun or summer.

7. Thirstlessness is very well-marked.

8. Headache is relieved by Profuse urination (Silicea).

9. Motion aggravates most symptoms but relieves muscular pain and heart symptoms.
10. Relief from stimulants is a general characteristic of Gels.

11. Mind : Anticipation of any unusual ordeal, when preparing for church, theatre,

examination, court, public meeting, to meet engagement, etc., brings on diarrhoea. It
is a good remedy for examination funk.

There is great nervousness, dread of appearing in public, stage fright, nervous to
appear in examination, though he studied well.

Very excitable, irritable, sensitive, nervous with fear of death and utter lack of
courage to die.

Desires to be quiet, to be let alone, does not wish to speak or have any one near
her, even if the person be silent.

12. Ailments from ; Fear, fright, exciting and bad news; depressing emotions, sun,
thunderstorm, damp weather, warm or cold, alcohol and self-abuse.

PARTICULARS
Headache :

Causation: Heat of summer and fright.

Location: Occipital headache, begins on occiput and spreads over the whole head and lastly settles
over the forehead andieyes.
