MAGNESIA PHOSPHORICA

“Synonym : Common Names:
Magnesium Phosphate Phosphate of magnesia

Molecules of magnesium phosphate are
found chiefly in the white fibres of the nerves
and muscles. The white fibres seem to be
controlled by the molecular action of the
magnesia cell-salt.When a deficiency in this
salt occurs, these white fibres contract, and
produce a condition called spasms, or cramps.
Of course, it is simply nature’s language,
saying: “I want more magnesium phosphate”.
Hence it is a remedy for cramps, convulsions,
and other nervous phenomena.

When a deficiency of magnesium
phosphate occurs in the muscular tissue of the walls of the stomach, the white fibres
draw up, contract, and reduce the cavity of the stomach. Now, in order to meet this
condition and prevent a collapse, gas is formed by a natural process from the material at
hand, and by expansion produces a counter-force. Magnesium phosphate relieves such
conditions almost instantly by supplying deficiencies.

This wonderful curative agent is the true antispasmodic remedy. It has cured cases
of chorea, or St. Vitus’ dance, in from two to four weeks. For all heart troubles, so-called,
caused by a distension of the cardiac portion of the stomach, and thus interfering with
the action of the heart, it is the sovereign remedy.

Mag Phos is indicated for nerve pains, such as neuralgia, neuritis and sciatica, and
headaches accompanied by shooting, darting stabs of pain. It relieves muscular
twitching, cramps, hiccups, convulsive fits of coughing and those sudden, sharp twinges
of pain that are so distressing. It also relieves menstrual pains. Stomach cramps and
flatulence respond to treatment with this tissue salt.

The only exception to this rule of speedy cures by administering this remedy is where
the blood has furnished calcium phosphate as a substitute, in an effort to supply the
deficiency. Calcium phosphate more nearly corresponds to magnesium phosphate than
any other salt; therefore, when magnesium phosphate does not act very promptly,
calcium phosphate should be given, in order that the chain of molecules may be
completed in both of the disturbed salts.

Its main function is in connection with the nervous system where it supplements the
action of Kali Phos.

