590 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1, “Painlessness” is a very characteristic and striking feature of Stramonium. There

2.

is no pain with most of the complaints (Opium).

The patient DESIRES LIGHT AND COMPANY. Cannot bear to be alone for a
moment. Always wants light, but dazzling light (e.g. light reflected from a mirror or
flowing water) aggravates the troubles.

. Great LOQUACITY is yet another important guiding symptom (Lach., Podo.). The

patient is disposed to talk continuously; incessant and incoherent talking and
laughing, PRAYING,, BESEECHING, ENTREATING, etc.

. The patient always feels sleepy, but cannot sleep (Bell., Cham. Op.).
. During delirium and convulsion, there is twitching of single muscle or group of

muscles, especially of upper part of the body (Aconite, Agaricus, Cicuta).

. Convulsion with consciousness (Nux vom.) is very characteristic of this remedy;

renewed by sight of bright light.

. Vomiting as soon as he raises head from the pillow, or from bright light.

8. The patient feels that his head is scattered about in many pieces.

11.

. He awakes with a shrinking look as if afraid of the first object seen.
10.

Sight of water or anything gjittering or reflected light brings on spasm and
convulsion. It is simply intolerable.

Mind : Stramonium, the last of the trio, is pre-eminently a high grade ‘delirium
remedy. The mental symptoms very commonly found in this important remedy,
which would help selection on the basis of similinum, are as follows:—

Loquacity is of the topmost degree in Stramonium. During delirium, the patient
talks all the time, sings, makes verses, and raves; nonstop and incoherent talking
and laughing.

In this respect it is very similar to Belladonna and Hyoscydmus, but only differing
in degree. Stramonium is very furious. Mania more acute and Congestion is more
than in Hyoscyamus but less than that of Belladonna. However, there is no
inflammation in Stramonium, as is usually found in Belladonna.

The patient has a disposition continuously for PRAYING, BESEECHING AND
ENTREATING, especially with suppression of menses in ladies.

THE PATIENT ALWAYS WANTS AND DESIRES LIGHT AND COMPANY. Yet
cannot tolerate shining bright object or reflected or dazzling light such as from a
mirror or flowing water. He cannot bear solitude and darkness; cannot remain in a
dark room alone.

From the sleep he awakes with a shrinking look aa if he is very much afraid of the
object first seen. He is too much terrified by hallucinations.

During delirium, the patient gets up and wants to escape and, therefore, he runs
away, and hides himself in a corner, difficult to be located.
