Lyssin (Hydrophobinum) aS

14) Delayed healing of wounds, ulcers, sinuses etc, Bluish discolouration of wounds
(Lach.)

15) Mind—The mental symptoms of Lyssin are very striking and are as follows—

The patient is highly impulsive especially of destructive nature, e.g. desires to kill
himself or some other. Patient suffers from Lyssophobia that is intense fear of
becoming mad. The chain of strange thoughts and ideas always circulate, fill-his
mind. Great apprehension as if something terrible is going to happen is another
guiding feature of Lyssin. He may suffer from violent mania of any kind. Rapid
speech and impatience are very notice-able. There is state of confusion, patient
reses his self-identity and very often asks “who am I” ?

Mental emotion or mortifying news always makes him worse.

Causation : History of dog bite (whether rabid or not), abnormal sexual desire,
mental emotion or exertion, mortifying or bad news etc.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

It is usually needed in chronic headache from bites of dog or from mental emotion of exertion.
Location : There is violent headache from temple to temple, also frontal.
Sensation : Pain as if head would burst.

Character of pain : Maddening, outward pressing pain in forehead; patient presses his head against
the wall, beating and throbbing pain with peculiar lightness of head.

Modalities : Aggravation on seeing water, during day, from writing.
Amelioration from cold air.

Concomitant : Headache with dizziness, nausea, and backache. It may alternate with hot flushes in
face.

Convulsions :

From dazzling or reflected light from water or mirror (Stram.); from even thinking of fluids of any
kind; from slightest touch or current of air,

Throat:

Sore throat, constant desire to swallow (Lac.Can., Merc.) Difficulty in swallowing ; even spasm of

oesophagus from swallowing liquids; gagging when swallowing water. Saliva is tough, ropy, viscid, frothy
in mouth and throat with constant spitting. (Hydr.)

Lascivious; priapism, with frequent emissions. Complaints from abnormal sexual desire. Atrophy of
testicles. No emission during coition.

Female :
Sensitivenes of vagina, rendering coition painful. Conscious of womb.
