600 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

. All the symptoms are WORSE AT NIGHT (MERC.), FROM SUNSET TO SUNRISE.
. When the best selected remedy fails to relieve or permanently improve especially in

syphilitic affections.

. Pain from sunset to sunrise, pain increases and decreases gradually, shifting in

nature. Requires frequent changes of position.

. Leucorrhoca is profuse, soaking through the napkin and running down the heels;

worse at night.

. Craving for ALCOHOL IN ANY FORM. Hereditary tendency to alcoholism.
. Ptosis, paralysis of superior oblique muscles of the eye, sleepy look from drooping

lids.

. Teeth decay at edges of gums and break off; edges are serrated; dwarfed in size,

converge at their tips.

. Obstinate constipation for years; rectum seems tied up with stricture.
10.
11.

Rheumatism of trie shoulder joint or at insertion of deltoid.

Mind : Loss of memory. Loses remembrance of present occurrences Cannot
recollect the names, dates, persons, places, etc. Arithmetical calculations are very
difficult. Sensation as if going to be insane; as if about to be paralysed, apathy and
indifference, Terrible dread of night on account of the mental and physical

exhaustion on awaking. It is intolerable and death is preferable. Fears the terrific
suffering from exhausting on awakiig.

12. Ailments from : Syphilis.

PARTICULARS
Eye:

In ophthalmia neonatorum, chronic and recurrent phlyctenular inflammation of cornea, this remedy

is indicated as follows:

Location: Especially in the left eye. Successive crops of phlyctenule and abrasion of epithelial layer

of cornea.

Character of pain; There is intense sharp, pulsating pain with intense photophobia. Lids are

swollen and adhere during sleep. Furthermore, there is ptosis consequent upon paralyisis of superior
oblique muscle of the eye. Sleepy look from drooping lids. Diplopia, one image seen below the other

Modialities:
¢ Aggravation: From 2 to 5 a.m., at night.
¢ Amelioration: By cold application.

Headache :

Causation: Sunstroke, excitement and syphilis.
Location: Across the temple,

Sensation: As if head would be crushed, with sense of weight and bursting in the vertex.
Character of pain: Neuralgic pain, intolerable pain. Violent pain In the whole head with red face,

enlarged veins of the face, restless and sleepless night. Lancinating pain in the eyes. Pain increases and
decreases gradually. Pains frequently shifting place with change of position.
