566 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Pregnancy : Morning sickness during pregnancy. The sight and thought of food makes the patient
sick, even smell of cooking food nauseates (Ars., Colch.).

Prolapse : Prolapse of uterus. There is pressure and BEARING DOWN SENSATION AS IF
EVERYTHING WOULD COME OUT FROM PELVIS The patient must cross the limbs tightly and “sit
close” to prevent it. Here it differs from Lilium tig. as follows:

Sepia Lilium tigrinum
1. Bearing down pressure, from back to | 1. Bearing down, everything forcing down, as if
abdomen. contents of the pelvis were being pushed down

through a funnel, the out let being vagina.

2. Must cross legs to prevent protrusion of | 2. Must support vulva with hand or cross legs.

parts.

3. Here the patient feel cold more. 3. Here the patient feels heat more.

4. Mentally the patient is very much | 4. Mentally the patient is always hurried and
indifferent and apathetic. worried.

5. Complete absence of Sexual desire. 5. Sexual desire much more marked.

Skin :

Itching of skin at various parts, of external genitalia, not relieved by scratching and is apt to change
to burning. Soreness of the skin and itching in bends of joints. There may also appear brown spots on
the skin. Ring worm, boils, blood boils, ulcers, etc. are regular occurrences. Lymphatic swellings and
crippled nails are often met with itching between fingers and in bends of joints. There is profuse
perspiration while walking. There may also appear herpes circinatus in isolated spots, on upper part of
body.

Respiratory Symptoms :
There is dry, hacking cough, especially in the evening.
Successive cough causes tickling sensation in the chest.
Oppression of the chest during morning and evening.

Shortness of breath when walking, especially when going upstairs. Congestion of blood to the chest,
with violent palpitation of heart. DYSPNOEA IS BETTER BY DANCING. There is brown spot on the
chest.

Chest symptoms are relieved by pressure of the hand on the thorax and by dancing.

Sepia is often indicated and useful in cases of phthisis particularly in women with characteristic Sepia
symptoms.

Breath and sputum are very foetid, offensive, felt even by the patient (Psorinum).

General Modalities :

Aggravation: Morning and evening, washing, laundry work, dampness, left side, after sweat, cold
air, before a thunderstorm.

Amelioration: By exercise, pressure, warmth of bed, hot application, drawing limbs up, cold bathing,
after sleep.
