230 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Nausea, VOMITING and FAINTNESS AT THE SMELL OF COOKING FOOD
(Arsenic cannot bear the smell or sight of food; Sepia too has nausea from smell or
sight of food. But in Colchicum, it is PAINFULLY ACUTE, especally the smell of
cooking eggs, fish and meat.).

2. Abdomen is immensely distended with gas; feels as it would burst.

8. Dysentery usually in autumn; stool contains scraping of intestine with characteristic
nausea; mucus and shreddy particles in large quantity pass out [Canth.,Arg. nit.].

4. Gout : The affected parts are very sensitive to touch and motion. Patient screams
with pain when touching a joint or stubbing a toe.

5. Rheumatic pains are of drawing, tearing, pressing nature, shifts from one joint to
another.

. Colchicum Dysentery and Rheumatism are extremely painful.

. Urine is dark coloured; inky urine.

. Tingling in finger nails, is a characteristic of colchicum says T.F. Allen.
. Aggravation from motion is marked as in Bryonia.

10. External impressions, such as light, noise, strong odours, contact, bad manners, etc.
make him almost beside himself (Nux vom.), and his sufferings seem to be
intolerable.

11. Ailments from grief and misdeeds of others; wetting; checked perspiration.

Conan &

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal System :
There is profuse secretion of saliva.

The smell of food causes nausea, even faintness and vomiting. There may be vomiting of
mucus, bile and food.

Burning or icy coldness in stomach with craving for various things.

Abdomen is enormously distended and feels as if it would burst.

Dysentery, cholera, gastralgia, flatulence or autumna dysentery, etc. are successfully treated by
Colchicum.
Dysentery :

Causation; Autumn, getting wet, checked perspiration and night.

Character of stool; Very offensive stool and offensive flatus. Frequent stool, profuse and abundant
in quantity. Yellowish stool, with whitish mucous and blood, Stoo! contains scrapings of intestine.
Stool sometimes passes with violent tenesmus. Constant ineffectual efforts to pass faeces (Nux vom.)-
Spasm of the sphincter during discharge of stool with shuddering over the back,

Modalities: Aggravation in autumn, mental exertion and amelioration by lying still.
