442 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1
2
3
+
5
6

7
8
9

10

.

Hydrogenoid Constitution.
Left sided affections especially when lower lobe of left lung is affected.

. Worse by dampness of weather, in damp house and cellers.

Discharges are thick, yellowish and greenish.
Ailments from abuse of quinine, neglected cases of gonorrhoea and mental trauma.

. Dirty and greenish, gray or brown coating on the tongue.
. Music makes her sad.

. Constant desire to take deep and long breath in wet weather.
. Burning thirst for very cold drinks, especially in evening.
. Mind : Mental traumatism, mental effects from injury to head, chronic brain effect

of blow and fall. Great anxiety with loathing of life and suicidal tendency. Patient
must use all possible self control to prevent shooting herself. A woman during
gestation attempts to hang herself.

There is great fear. Fear of crowd, of evil, of people. Easily frightened.

The patient is very much sad, depressed, gloomy, dislikes to speak or to be spoken
to ill-humoured with dislike of conversation.

Sleep disturbed by dreams of fighting.

Satiety of life. Does not like music. Music makes her weep, makes her sad, makes her
melancholic (This symptom is inherited from the Natrum family, i.e., Natrum carb,
Nat. mur.). Sensation as if the forehead would burst, as if something was forcing its
ways out of ears.

11. Ailments from : Fear, suppressed gonorrhoea, abuse of quinine, damp and rainy

weather.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :

Abdomen : Fiatulent colic: Pain and tenderness in the whole abdomen. Great flatulence in the

abdomen, with clull, heavy burning, pain In the abdomen, relieved by passing flatus. Cannot bear tight
clothing around the waist, with vomiting of bile. Frequent expulsion of offensive flatus in morning.

Modalities;
* Aggravation before break-fast.
* Amelioration: By passing flatus in afternoon.
Hepatitis : Liver is sore to touch with sharp stitching pain in the liver region. Skin and conjunctiva

become yellow. Nausea with vomiting of bile.

Great flatulence in the abdomen, with colic and burning irr abdomen and anus.
The character of stool is watery, yellowish and greenish.
