a

Moschata 451

Nux

Temperament: Nervous and hysterical temperament.
Relation with heat and cold: Chilly patient.

Miasm: Psora and sycosis are in the background.
Diathesis: Rheumatic diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1

10.
11.

12.

. Drowsiness and sleepiness. The greatest characteristic of Nux moschata is
drowsiness and sleepiness which accompany all ailments. Complaints cause
SLEEPINESS or is accompanied by DROWSINESS. This is the red strand and
KEY-NOTE of the drug.

. Chilliness is yet another important symptom. The patient is very chilly. All

complaints are aggravated by cold and damp weather and relieved by warmth.

. Dryness : This too is equally important. There is great dryness of the skin and

mucus membrane. No other remedy in Mataria Medica has got this symptom so
prominently. The skin is very dry, mouth is so dry that the saliva seems like cotton
and the tongue adheres to the root of the mouth. This is the great second key-note of
thisdrug.

Dryness of the eyes is very well-marked. Eyes are too dry for the lids to close.

. Thirsdessness : Inspite of great dryness of the mouth and the skin, curiously

enough THERE IS NO THIRST (Puls.). This is very well-marked in Nux moschata
which is yet another great key-note of the remedy.

. Oversensitiveness runs thorugh the whole remedy. Oversensitive to light, touch,

smell, noise, pain, etc. which causes vertigo, nausea, vomiting and even fainting.

. The patient is very forgetful; absence of mind and indifference. Changeable, mood,

hysterical and nervous disposition.

. There is marked tendency to faint ,and inclination to become unconscious; soporous

condition as if intoxicated.

. Flatulent distension of abdomen with consequent diarrhoea.
. Leucorrhoea instead of menses (Cocculus); Physometra (Lyco., Lac can.,

Sanguinaria).
Cough is loose after eating and dry after drinking.

Great soreness of all the parts upon which he lies, with tendency to bed sqre (Bapt.,
Pyrogen, Ruta).

Mind : The mental symptoms of Nux moschata are yery striking and characteristic
and are as follows:-

The patient is very much absent-minded. She cannot think ot concentrate her mind
on anything.

There is marked indifference to everything. She cannot and does not take interest
in anything, whether it is her own affair, domestic, personal or otherwise. No
interest for anything.
