662 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

—_—

generally useful. Lately the lower triturations of Potassium and Sodium salts, the third
decimal, of others the fourth and fifth, have been productive of equally good results. In
the last edition of his “Abgekurzte Therapie” he says on this point: “In my practice |
employ the sixth decimal trituration generally. Ferrumphos., Silicea and Calcarea fluar,
I usually give in the 12th trituration. In acute diseases, a dose consisting of a powder,
size of a pea, should be given every hour or two; in chronic diseases 3 or 4 times daily,
The powder may be given dry on the tongue, or dissolved in a spoonful of water.”

We, ourselves, have had the most satisfactory results from the sixth decimal
trituration, rarely going higher, at times lower, and generally we prefer to give the
selected remedy in solution by dissolving a good-sized powder in a tumbler, half full of
water, and administering teaspoonful doses every hour or two.

These triturations may be moulded into tablets usually of one grain each; the dose
being two or three taken dry on tongue or dissolved in water.

If liquid solutions are used, a few drops may be dissolved in water, or pellets or disks
may be saturated and given in that way. The latter is especially to be recommended with
children.

FREQUENCY OF DOSES
(a) In acute cases - a dose every hour or two
(b) In severe, painful affections - a dose every ten to fifteen minutes
(c) In chronic affections - one to four doses daily

In suitable cases the external use of the remedies is indicated and has been found
useful. For this purpose the lower triturations may be used.

In determining the dose of a biochemic remedy, the amount of the morbid product
involved is no important factor. For instance, a very small deficiency of Natrum mur. in
the cells of the epithelial layer of a serous sac may give rise to a massive serous
exudation; and as minute a supply of Natrum mur. corresponding to the deficiency may
bring about a complete resorption of the exudation.

Guided by the relative quantities of the cell salts, each practitioner can select the
proper dose of the indicated biochemic remedy.

One milligramme of a substance is estimated to contain 16 trillions of molecules.
According to this estimate, the 6th decimal trituration of it would contain about 16
billions; this quantity is more than sufficient to restore disturbed molecular motions to
the normal.

RELATION OF THE BIOCHEMIC TO THE HOMCEOPATHIC TREATMENT

Often the question has been asked, “is Schueslerism Homeopathy?” and it has as
often been answered in the affirmative as in the negative. Schuessler himself claimed
that it is not in any way related to Homoeopathy, claiming for it a separate system of
therapeutics.
