Cinchona Officinalis (trina) 217

13. Mind : APATHETIC, INDIFFERENT, taciturn, gloomy, ill-humoured and
despondent.

Has no desire to live, but lacks courage to commit sucide. Increased irritability of
the nerves. Dislike of bodily and mental work. Discontended; he thinks himself
unfortunate and fancies he is opposed and tormented by every body. He is lost in
thoughts. Sudden crying and tossing about in despair. Ideas crowded in mind
preventing sleep. Aversion to exercise. Dread of.dogs and other animals, especially
at night. Disposed to be quarrelsome and inclined to be angry.

14. Ailments form : Exhausting discharges or LOSS OF VITAL FLUIDS SUCH AS
HAEMORRHAGE, EXCESSIVE LACTATION, DIARRHOEA, SUPPURATION, etc.
Bad effects from tea drinking or abuse of Chamomilla, quinine; from mental
emotions, from draught of air, from fruits, sexual excess and loss of sleep.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache caused as a result of HAEMORRHAGE, SEXUAL EXCESS OR LOSS OF
VITAL FLUID and sleeplessness or suppressed coryza.

Location: Headache from occiput over the whole head.

Sensation: Sensation as if the skull would burst. Sensation as if the brain were balancing to and
from and is striking against skull, causing great pain.

Character of pain: Confusion and dullness of the head as if intoxicated. Intense throbbing of head
and carotids. Head is inclined to draw backwards.

Modality: Headache is worse in open air, on stepping and better in warm room. Headache becomes

worse by slight touch, contact and mental Exertion, but relieved by hard pressure. Headache is aggravated
on sitting or by lying down; must stand or walk.

Concomitants: Vertigo on waking at night. Nausea and vomiting of sour food, bile and mucus.

Gastro intestinal tract :

Mouth : Toothache while the baby sucks the breast. Throbbing toothache, aggravated by slightest
touch, but REELIEVED BY PRESSING THE TEETH FIRMLY AGAINST EACH OTHER and by hot
application. Tongue coated white or yellow; tongue dirty; dryness of mouth with profuse saliva day and
night; every thing tastes sour or bitter.

Stomach and abdomen : There is no desire for eating or drinking, although there is appetite.

Vomiting of undigested food, of sour mttcus, bile or blood. TYMPANITIC ABDOMEN, with excessive

flatulence and belching which gives no relief and consequently great distension of entire abdomen and
borborygmus.

Sensation as if the abdomen is full of gas; to get relief from which the patient tries to belch, but on
eructation, there is no tangible relief.

Each food particle seems vo have turned into gas (lod., Kali carb.).

Worse from eating fruits, fish, wine, etc. Abdomen feels sore and tender; Aggravation by slight
touch, and RELIEVED BY HARD PRESSURE AND DOUBLING UP. There is canine hunger without
any special desire to eat Haematemesis with great loss of blood. Gastraigia with acidity, bloating and sour
