Arsenicum Album 89

offensive and dark. There is loss of breath 1 diately after lying down: whistiling sound due to
constriction of trachea. Hering says that there will be tightness of chest as if bound with ho.p

Modality; Aggravation from 12-2 a.m./p.m,
Relieved by heat in general.
Cardio-vascular system : Palpitation after, suppression of foot sweat (Tonsils—Baryta carb.).

Heart beats more rapidly and stronger when lying on back. Hering says that Arsenic will be of great
use in Angina Pectoris. Sudden tightness of heart, agonising precordial pain. Pain goes to back, occiput
and neck. Angina pain is worse from 12-2a.m. Pulse is thread like, incompressible and weak.

Skin : Skin has white pasty look, with painful black eruption, There may be pustules, vesicles,
disquamation from head to foot. Burning and itching, followed by pain after scratching. Pimples burn
violently causing intolerable anguish. Dropsy, local or general, with disproportionate weakness. Black
vesicles cause burning pain. Carbuncles, boils and abscesses with very offensive discharge which are hot
and burning, but relieved by hot application. Cancers with great pain. In gangrene, burning pain is
relieved by heat.

Intermittent fever :

* Type: Quotidian, tertian, quartun, double tertian. Anticipates every 14 days, every year.
Remittent and relapsing typhoid and malarial fevers due to abuse of quinine derivatives.

¢ Time: Afternoon paroxysms (1-2a.m. arid 12-2p.m.)

* Prodrome: There may be sleepiness during night before paroxysms. Yawning and stretching,
malaise, debility, weakness, headache and vertigo. Chill without thirst, alternates with heat. Nails and lips

burn during chill.
¢ Heat: Dry heat with thirst; inclination to uncover.

© Sweat: There will be sweat at the end of fever which relieves pain; cold and clammy sweat, sour
and offensive smell. Thirst during sweat stage.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: Periodically after mid-day and mid-night 12-2 a.m./p.m:, cold food and drinks,
exertion, lying on affected side with head low.

Amelioration: From heat in general (except head, which is temporarily relieved by cold); hot
drinks, hot application, motion, elevating the head, company and rest.
Relations :

Complementary to Sulphur, Thuja, Rhus tbx., Carbo veg., Phos and Secale cor.

Antidotes; Camphor, Carbo veg., Graphites, China, Hepar, Ipecac and Nux vom.
