484 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Mammary abscesses, angry ulcers from which a sanious, ichorous, foetid pus comes out.

The nipple is very much SENSITIVE, SORE, FISSURED and Is aggravated by nursing. Whenever the

child nurses, the pain goes from nipple to all over the body (Goes to back, Croton tig.: to Uterus, Puls.,
Sil.).

When there is no milk in the breast or milk is scanty, thick, unhealthy and dries up soon then
Phytolacca is the only remedy (Kent).

Throat:

Phytolacca is a wonderful medicine for Tonsillitis and Diptheria when the following symptoms are
present :-

Sensation: Sensation of a lump in the throat.
Look of the throat: Dark, red, ash-coloured appearance of the throat.

Character of pain: Great pain at the root of the tongue, pain shoots from throat into ears on
swallowing. Pain flies like electric shocks, shifting in nature. Tonsils are swollen and ulcerated. Sore
throat. In diphtheria, the throat feels very hot; there is great burning as from coal of fire ORA
RED HOT IRON. Uvula enlarged, dropsical, almost translucent.

There is irresistible desire to swallow with severe burning pain. Cannot swallow even water; difficulty
in swallowing anything.

Modalities:
* Aggravation: Drinking hot fluids and at night.
* Amelioration: By cold drinks.
Rheumatism :
Syphilitic or mercurial in origin.
Location: Especially right shoulder.
Sensation: Stiffness in arm with inability to raise the arm.

Character of pain: Pains flying like electric shocks, shooting, lancinating from one place to
another. There is also pain under the side of thighs. Sharp cutting pain in the hips, legs drawn up. Cannot
touch the floor, syphilitic and gonorrhoeal background.

Modality: Aggravation: From motion, at night, from warmth of bed and warm application.
It occupies a position in between Bryonia and Rhus tox. and cures when these fail.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: When it rains, exposure to damp cold weather, motion, at night and right side.
Amelioration: Warmth, dry weather and rest.

Relations :

Inimical: Mercurius.
Antidotes: Milk and salt; Bell.
