726 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Poisonous mushrooms (Camp.) Some mushrooms are edible and some are poisonous.

Polypi (Sang.) A general descriptive term used with reference to any mass of tissue, that
bulges or Projects outward or upward or downward from the normal surface level.

Pot-belliedness (Sep.) Belly swollen like a pot.

Priapism (Canth, Pic. A. Sel.) Prolonged penile erection in the absence of sexual
stimulation.

Prophetic perceptions (Lack) Quality of understanding what will be happening in future.

Prosopalgia (Spig.) Trigeminal neuralgia. Excruciating pain in distribution of Trigeminal
nerve.

Psoric Constitution (Calc. ost., Hell. N., Psor, Sil, Sulph.) The persons having this
constitution are over sensitive both physically and mentally and frequently suffer from
functional disturbances arising from emotional disturbances. Skin dry, unwashed
appearing with numerous eruptions. Itching, ameliorated by scratching, but skin burns
and smarts afterwards. Hands and feet burn, flushes of heat, especially over face. Desires
hot foods and meats. Cannot stand still; the patient must walk or lean against something
if he is on his feet. Very much susceptible to cold; Complaints, ameliorated by heat;
aggravated by winter; ameliorated by summer. A psoric patient is always afraid of dying
but lives on for years.

Ptomaine (Pyr.) Any of various amine compounds (some toxin.) formed in putrefied animal
and vegetable matter.

Ptosis (Rhus, Syph.) Drooping of the upper eyelid, due to a fault of development, to paralysis
of the levator palpebrae muscle, to a weighing of the lid by a tumor, or to recession of the
supporting eyeball.

Ptyalism (Dulc., Kreos., Merc.) Excessive salivation.

Puckered (Hydr.) Contracted, gathered into wrinkles, folds or bulges.

Puerperal mania (Acted) Mania in the period of about 42 days following childbirth.

Mania: A form of psychosis characterised by exalted feelings, delusion, elevation of mood and
overproduction of ideas.

Pulse wiry (Pyr.) A small, fine, incompressible pulse.
Puny (Lye., Mag. M.) Stunted.
Purple hue (phyt.) Purple colour i.e., colour mixed with red & blue.

Purpura haemorrhagica (crotalus H, Sulph. A., Tereb.) A condition characterized by
haemorrhage into skin mucus membrane, internal organs and other tissues. It is
characterised by a greatly diminished platelet count. The clotting time is norma! but the
bleeding time is prolonged.

Pusillanimous (Lye.) Easily frightened; timid.
Pyrogenic process [latent] (Pyr.) Slowly advancing fever accompanying septicaemia.

Pyrosis (Bism, Nux M.) Heart-burn; water-brash. Eructation of acid gastric contents into the
mouth accompanied by a burning sensation felt behind the sternum.
