ALLEN'S KEY NOTE — an easy explanation 725

Parchment (Sabad) A kind of paper prepared from the skin of ship or goat.
Paresis (Op.) Partial or incomplete paralysis.
Paronychia (Diasco) A whitlow. Suppurative inflammation around a fingernail.

Paroxysm anticipates (Cinch) Paroxysm comes .before the appointed time i.e., malarial
paroxysm when it. recurs progressively at shorter interval.

Parturition (Rhus) Child birth; labor; giving birth to a child.

Peaches (Allium) A kind of fruit.

Peevish (Ant. c., Cham, Mur. Ac., Tub., Ars. Alb, Medo, Cycl.) Querulous, irritable.
Pendent shreds (Aur. M.) Hanging fragments.

Pernicious intermittent (Camph.) Intermittent fever of severe character and usually fatal.

Pernicious anaemia (Pic. Ac) Results from failure to absorb vitamin Bj, so that
erethropoiesis becomes megaloblastic.

Pessaries (Nux M.) An appliance of varied form, introduced into the vagina to support the
uterus or to correct any displacement.

Petechia (Sul. A.) Minute haemorrhogic spots, a pin point to pin-head size, in the skin.

Pettish (Fer. .) Peevish, petulent. Childishly bad/tempered pr impa-tient, esp. about
unimportant things.

Petulently rejects (cham) Irritably rejects.
Phagedenic ulceration (Merc Cym.) An ulcer that rapidly spreads peripherally.
Phlegmatic habit (Aloe, Cap, Pul, Mez.) Calm, apathetic, unexcitable.

Phthisis florida (Theridion) Pulmonary tuberculosis where fibrotic changes have taken
place to a great extent.

Phymosis (Merc. 5.) Narrowness of the opening of the prepuce.

Physometra (Brom, Lye., Nux. M.) Distention of the uterine cavity with air or gas.
Pickles (Ant. c.) Brine, vinegar or similar liquor in which food is preserved.

Piles, Strangulated (Lach.) Piles constricted so as to cut off the blood supply.
Pinning boys (Aur. M.) Emaciated boys.

Pipe Stem Stool (Digi.) Slender stool like tubular part of tobacco pipe.

Piteous moaning (Cham.) Lamentation evoking pity.

Plethoric habit (Acon. N. Amyl. N., Bell., Calc. ost., Cap, Kali br,, Stram, Sulph, Ver. v.) The
constitution having excess amount of blood. Unhealthy condition of the body marked by
an excess of red corpuscles in the blood,

Plica polonica (Psor.,Tub.) A matted condition of the hair caused by filth and the presence
of parasites.

Plug (Kali. Bi.) A small wedge.
Pneumogastric Nerve (Ant. T.) Vagus Nerve; The 10th cranial nerve.
