Allium Cepa 35

7. Neuralgic pain like a long thread following amputation or nerve injuries is relieved
by this remedy.

8. Thread like pain, in various parts, is characteristic of Allium cepa.

9, Ailments from : Exposure to damp north-western cold wind, bad effects from
getting wet, salad, cucumber.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

There is catarrhal dull headache with coryza, which aggravates in warm room, better in open air and
worse again on returning to a warm room.

Eyes -

The eyes are burning, biting, smarting as from smoke, must rub them for relief, watery and suffused;
capillaries are injected, congested and EXCESSIVE LACHRYMATION WHICH IS PROFUSE-BUT

BLAND.

Nose:

The discharge from nose is also profuse and watery but ACRID. Excoriates the part touched by the
nasal discharge. The nasal discharge drops from tip of the nose.

There may also be nasal polypus found in the patient (Sanguinaria, Psorinum, Mar.v., Sang. Nit.).

Coryza :

There is spring coryza after exposure to damp northwestern wind; discharges burn and corrode the
nose and upper lip. catarrhal laryngitis, with severe cough which compels the patient to grasp the /arynx:
seems as if the cough would tear the larynx.

Modalities: The above symptoms of headache, eyes, nose and coryza are aggravated in the evening,
in a warm room and are relieved in the open air and in a cold room.

Colic :

Alliurn cepa patient may also suffer from colic usually caused from cold; by getting feet wet; from
overeating; cucumbers; salads; haemorrhoidal; of children; is aggravated by sitting and relieved by moving
about.

Injury :
If in neuralgia the pain is like a long thread on face, hand, neck or chest or if there is traumatic
chronic neuritis of neuralgia after amputation with burning and stinging pain Allium cepa is the remedy.

Phiebitis :

Furthermore, if phlebitis, puerperal or after forceps delivery, develops or panaritia with red streaks
up the arm with pain driving the patient to despair, in child-bed Allium cepa is to be thought of as an
effective remedy.

For the sore and raw spots on feet especially heel, ‘from friction particularly when the feet are
rubbed sore” Allium cepa is very much efficacious.
