Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Stomach :

Tongue coated yellow and slimy. Insipid, pappy taste. Gums painful. Burning thirst nausea and
vomiting. Indigestion with sensation of pressure as of a load & fullness at the pi, of the stomach. Dread
of hot drinks.

Abdomen :

Colicky pains ; abdomen feels cold to touch; tym- panitic, tense. Yellow, slimy diarrhoea.
Constipation with haemorrhoids.

Male: Gonorrhoea ; discharge slimy, yellowish green. orchitis. Gleet.
Female : Menses too late, scanty with feeling of weight in abdomen. Metrorrhagia.

Respiratory Symptoms :

Croupy hoarseness. Coarse rales. Rattling of mucus in chest. Bronchial asthma with yellow
expectoration. Cough worse in evening and in hot atmosphere. Whooping cough with yellow slimy
expectoration.

Extremities : Rheumatic pains in the back, nape of neck or in the limbs, periodical worse in the
evening or in a warm room and better in cool atmosphere. Pains are shifting, wandering.

Skin: Eczema; burning, itching, papular eruption. Nettlerash, Psoriasis. Polypi. Epithelioma.
Seborrhoea. Ringworm of scalp or beard with abundant scales. Sores on the skin with yellow watery
secretion.

General Modalities:
Aggravation: Evening, heated room.
Ameliaoration: Cool open air.

Comparison between Kali Sulph & Pulsatilla Similarities
1) Aggravation of symptoms in a warm room and evening
2) Amelioration in the cool open air.

3) Discharges from mucous membranes are yellow, purulent in character. Sometimes yellowish
green coating of tongue yellow and slimy.

4) Pressure & feeling of fullness in stomach
5) Pains in limbs worse at night and from warmth better in cool open air.
6) Migratory or shifting and wandering rheumatic pains.
Disimilarities
Kali Sulph Pulsatilla

1) Mentals of Kali Sulph “None of importance” —_1) Mild, gentle, yeilding weeps easily.
Easily move to laughter or tears.

2) Burning thirst 2) Thirstlessness
3) Not much 3) Changeability of symptoms
4) Skin and nails and especially affected 4) Chillblains that turn blue suggest

by Kal Sulph especially Pulsatilla
