400 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

(c) Joints, manifesting as rheumatism or gout.
(d) Glands—Enlargements of glands all over the body.

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Medorrhinum is ideally suited to the patients having
constitutional effects of maltreated or suppressed gonorrhoea; with trembling all over;
weak, fatigued and emaciated as a result of long continued chronic diseases, with a state
of collapse.

Temperament: Weeping disposition, peevish and impatient.
Relation with heat and cold: Medorrhinum is a hot patient, easily affected by heat in

general.

Miasm: Sycosis is in the background for most of the troubles.
Diathesis: Rheumatic and gouty diathesis.

1.

ooaonn na

13.

Medorrhinum is to be thought of in all cases of constitutional effects of maltreated
and/or suppressed gonorrhoea when the best selected remedies fail to relieve or
permanently improve.

. Soreness all over the body especially glands with burning in hands and feet

(Sulphur, Puls., Cham, and Lach.).

. Trembling all over the body with intense nervousness and profound exhaustion

(Gels., Arg. nit. and Merc. sol.).

. A state of collapse persists in the Medorrhinum patient who wants to be fanned all

the time (Carbo veg., Lachesis). Coldness all over still does not like covering, throws
them off (Camphor, Secale cor.), cold and bathed with perspiration (Ver. alb.).

. Sensation of tightness, constriction and soreness all over,

. Intense restlessness and fidgety feeling in legs and feet (Zinc).
. Inordinate craving for liquor, salt, sweet and acid.

. Backache is relieved by profuse urination (Lyco.).

. Dyspnoea relieved by lying on face and protruding tongue.
10.
11.

Menses : Profuse, very dark, clotted, stains and difficult to wash off (Mag. carb.).

Pain in the heart region from apex to base (from base to apex, Syphilinum; from
base to clavicle or shoulder, Spigelia).

. Burning of hands and feet, wants them uncovered and and fanned (Sulph. and

Lach.).

In case of women, there may be chronic ovaritis, salpingit,, pelvic cellulitis fibroids,

cysts or any other morbid growth otuterus and ovar es both benign and malignant
with or without sycotic origin.
