30 Text Book of MATERIA MEDIC,

a

5. Great sensitiveness of the entire body.
6. Chilblains and frostbite, with itching and redness and burning intolerably.
7. Complaints appear diagonally: Upper left arm and lower right leg (Anac., Arn,,

Kalic., Led., R.tox., Thuja), Upper right arm and lower left leg (Ambra, Caust,,
Lyco., Medo., Phos., Sulp.ac.).

8. Pain as if ice touched or pierced by needles of ice, is very characteristic.
9. Violent bearing down pain in females.

10. Ailments from : Indolent circulation, bad effects of alcohol, debauch, sexual excess,
suppressed eruption.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache may be caused by defective circulation, alcohol or sexual excess.

Character of headache: Headache of those readily become delirious in fever or with pain; of
persons subject to chorea; twitching or grimaces; from spinal affection.

Modality; Aggravation from exposure to cold air, before a thunderstorm, after coition or alcoholism.

Concomitants: Delirium; twitching and jerking; especially while awake.

Convulsion and delirium :
Causation: Of drunkards, bad effects of sexual excess, debauch or suppressed eruption.

Character of delirium; With constant raving. The patient tries to. get out of bed and escape,
generally in typhoid. Twitching and trembling and jerking of the whole body with chorea. Involuntary |
movements while awake, ceases during sleep; chorea of single muscle to the dancing of the whole body. |
There may be spinal irritation due to sexual excess. Nervous prostration after sexual debauch. Every
motion and turn of the body causes pain in the spine. There is uncertainty in, walking; stumbles over
everything on the way. Feels pains as if beaten. A peculiarity of the delirium is tendency to make verses
and prophecy and incoherent talks; it gives the nearest approach to paralysis; exalted notions of grandeur
and power, followed by depression, confusion and imbecility.

Concomitants: There may be headache along with or consequent upon this attack, The whole body
is very painful and sensitive to touch. Extreme sensitiveness to cold air.
Skin :

Causation: Exposure to cold; snow-bite.

Sensarion: Chilblains with itching, redness and burning. Frostbite and all cosequences thereof.
Sensation as if ice touched or ice cold needles were piercing the skin or as from hot needles.

Burning, itching and redness of various parts; ears, nose, face, hands and feet. The affected parts
are red, hot and swollen.

Feels pain all over the body. Spine is very sensitive to touch. Pain is sore, aching, especially in lumbar
and sacral region, during exertion, in daytime and while sitting. Single vertebra is very sensitive to touch.
Extremely sensitive to cold air,

Modality: Aggravation when standing and in cold air.

