162 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Stomach :
Craves smoked and salted meat and salty food Great hunger with thirst.

Diarrhoea :
Causation: During 1st and 2nd dentition after taking juicy fruits.
Character of stool: Greenish, slimy, hot, sputtering, undigested with foetid flatus and fishy odour,

Respiratory system :
For suffocative cough, relieved when lying down, calc. phos., is a good medicine. The patient may
also have involuntary sighing (Ign.).

Rheumatism :
Causation: After getting wet in rain (Phyto., Rhus tox.).
Location: Pain in joints and various other parts.
Character: Stiffness and pain with cold numb feeling.

Modalities:
* Aggravation: By any change of weather, winter, by motion and exertion.

¢ Amelioration: During spring, summer dry warm weather and rest.

Menses :
Too early, excessively bright flow, first bright then of dark blood with violent backache and

nymphomania (Piat.).

Leucorrhoea :
Like white of an egg aggravated in the morning.

Baby :

Calcarea phos. is especially suited to a psoric baby who is highly chilly, having scrofulous diathesis.

Look of the baby: Baby is tall, scrawny and emaciated having ENLARGED HEAD, OPEN
FONTANELLES AND SUTURES, but with sunken and flabby abdomen.

Bone symptoms; Rachitic baby with OPEN FONTANELLES'AND SUTURES which remain open
for a time or close and re-open. The baby is uanble to stand; is slow in learning to walk; neck is weak and
hance unable to support the BIG HEAD: cranial bones thin and brittle- spine WEAK AND DISPOSED
TO CURVATURE. The spine is so weak in lumber region that the child cannot sit upright unles the back
is supported.

Dentition: Dentition difficult, delayed or complicated,

Mind: Mentally the baby is very much peevish and fretful; wants to go home like Bry. and when at _
home, wants to go out.

Desire: There is intense craving for salted and smoked meat.

Stool; The ag Seay suffers from spluttering diarrhoea; the character of stool being greenish,
watery, hot, slimy, , containing undigested food particles. Very offensive fl along
with or independent of stool, ¥ en any ne: poet

