492 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. “Retraction” and sense of retraction is the key note of plumbum, e.g. retraction of

2.

abdominal wall during colic, atrophy of muscles, during paralysis, etc.

Violent colic, sensation as if the abdominal wall was drawn by a string to
the spine.

. Distinct blue line along the margin of gums, gums swollen pale and show a lead

coloured line.

. Constipation after lead poisoning: stool hard lumpy black like sheep dung (Chel.,

Opium).

. Excessiue hyperaesthesia—could not bear to be touched anywhere, it hurts so.
. Again, ANAESTHESIA is also strongly present in plumbum like hyperaesthesia.
. Excessive and rapid emaciation with general or partial paralysis, especially of single

muscles.

8. Muscular atrophy from sclerosis of the spinal nervous system.
9. Complexion is pale, ash-coloured, yellow, cheecks are sunken, expression of great
anxiety and sufferng.

10. Excessive pain in the abdomen, radiating to all parts of the body.

11. Intussusception with colic and faecal vomiting strangulated hernia, femoral.,

12. The symptoms are aggravated by touch and motion and relieved by hard pressure
and by rubbing.

13. Mind : Great mental depression with slow perception. The mind is impaired, loss of
memory; the patient memorizes with difficulty, comprehension is difficult. He
cannot recall words to express himself. The operation of mind is slow. Apart from
the slowness of mind which is a general symptom, this remedy is full of
melancholia, sadness, feeling as if something terrible would happen.

All the mental symptoms are greatly exaggerated by exertion, especially exertion in
the open air.

14. Ailments from : Sexual excess, suppressed eruption and bad effects of mercury.

PARTICULARS
Mouth :

There is distinct blue line along the margin of the gums, gums pale, swollen, shows a lead

coloured line, blue purple or brown and painful.

The tongue is dry, brown, cracked, coated yellow or green. There is foetid breath with dryness of

mouth.

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Stomach : The stomach is unable to digest food, contracture of stomach with pressure and

tightness, gastralgia with constant vomiting; solid cannot be swallowed.
