Aconitum Napelius 15

accompanying the most trifling ailments. Intense and uncontrollable anguish,
anxiety and great fear are characteristic symptoms.

Hahnemann says. “Whenever Aconite is chosen homoeopathically, you must, above
all, observe the moral symptoms and be careful that it closely resembles them, the
anguish of mind and body; the restlessness; the disquiet not to be allayed.”

16. Ailments from. Exposure to dry cold air, dry North or West wind, or exposure
draught of cold air, while in perspiration; bad effects of checked perspiration, fear,
fright, shock, heat of sun, excitement, injury, surgical operation, etc.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation : Exposure to dry cold air, exposure to draught of cold air, while in perspiration, bad
effects of checked perspiration, fear, fright, shock, heat of sun, excitement, etc.

Location ; Intense pain is felt in the frontal region or semi-laterally.

Sensation : Headache as if nailed up; drives him crazy; fullness and heaviness in forehead, as if the
skull would be forced out through the forehead. Burning headache as if the brain were agitated by boiling
water. Sensation of fulness and throbbing in the head,

Modalities :

¢ Aggravation: Towards the evening and at night, when going to bed. Pains are worse in a warm
room and when lying on affected side,

* Ameliorafion : In the open air.
Concomitants: Fear of death, anxiety, worry, mental uneasiness and restlessness.

Cough :

Causation : Cough may be caused due to exposure to dry cold air, dry North or West wind, or
exposure to draught of cold air; checked perspiration, etc. The cough may.come along with fever or
cough itself may start violently.

Character of cough : It is sudden and violent. It may be croupy in nature. Cough is dry, hoarse,
suffocating, loud, rough, croaking, hard, ringing and whistling.

Modalities :
¢ Aggravation : On expiration, towards evening and at night.
¢ Amelioration: In the open air.

Dysentery :
Causation : Fear, fright, shock, heat of sun. or® excitement.
Mode of onset : Sudden and violent.

Character of stool ; There is sudden agonising pain in the abdomen. Severe tenesmus and
gripping colicky pain. Frequent stool, stool contains undigested food particles, mucus and bright red
blood; frequent desire to defaecate.

Modalities : Attack severe and more towards evening and at night.
