ALLEN'S KEY NOTE — an easy explanation 721

Languid (Mag p., Puls, Taran) Exhausted.

Languor (Melon, Med) Slackness. Lacking vigour or energy; tiredness or laziness of mind
and body.

Laparatomy (Bism.) Cutting of abdominal wall for access to cavity of abdomen.

Lardaceous base (Merc., Merc. 5.) Lard or fat like degenerated-tissue at the bottom.

Laryngeal phthisis (Dros.) Tuberculosis of larynx.

Lascivious mania (Hyos.) Lustful; sexual mania.

Lassitude (Benz. A., Plumb) Extreme weakness.

Laudable pus (Nit. A.) Pus that indicates healthy granulation of the uleer. A term formerly
used to describe pus, under the notion that it was nice to have it in a wound.

Laurel berris (Alum.) Like small roundish fruit of Laurel tree (Bay-tru)
‘Lets up with a Snap’ (Puts.) Diminishes or ceases with a sudden terrible pain.

Leucophlegmatic (Calc. Ost., Cyclam) Flabby, calm, apathetic, slow to act or react;
unexcitable.

Leud thoughts (Selen.) Lustful thoughts.
Lienteria (Abrot.) Diarrhoea in which the stool contains ufidigested food.
Lightning like pain (Mag. C., Mag. P.) Pain appearing and disappearing quickly.

Limburger cheese (Sanic.) Type of cheese ripened by bacteria and surface micro-organisms.
It has strong offensive odour or stalecurd like smell.

Linea nasalis (Aeth.) Along narrow line on either sides of the nose.
Listless (Lil. T., Phos A.) Languid; having no energy, vitality or enthusiasm.

Lithic diathesis (Sarsa) A supposed tendency to the formation of uric acid in excess,with
resulting rheumatic and gouty symptoms.

Lithotomy (Staph.) A cutting operation for the removal of stone from bladder.
Lively to serene (Nux M.) From joyful mood to serious mood.
Liver spots (Plum) Whitish spot which later changes into dark brown due to liver diseases.

Lochia (Caulo, Kreos, Pyr.) The vaginal discharge which occurs during the puerperium. At
first pure blood, it later becomes paler, diminishes in quantity and finally ceases.

Lock jaw (Cicuta, Hyp) Tetanus; specially, trismus (See trismus).

Loud snoring (Op.) A rough rattling inspiratory noise produced by vibration of the
pendulous palate or vocal cords during sleep or coma,

Lymphatic constitution (Aster., Bapt., Bell., Hep. S.J: It is marked by pallor, slow and
shallow respiration, sluggish circulation hyperplasia of the lymphatic glands and
tendency to inflammation of the skin and lymphatics.

Lymphatic temperament (Bapt., Thuj.) Flabby, pale, sluggish (qual-ities formally causes
attributed to excess of lymph.).
