Chelidonium Majus ‘ 205

g. Constant pain under the lower and inner angle of fright scapula. (Kali c.,
Merc.) due to gallstone or liver complaints, etc.

3. Desire for VERY HOT DRINKS, unless it is almost boiling. Stomach wilt not retain
or tolerate it.

. Yellow, grey colour of the whole skin and mucous membrane.

. For bilious complications during gestation, Chelidonium is infallible.
. Thick, yellow coated tongue with imprint of teeth.

7. All troubles are better after dinner (Anac., Iod,).

8. Ailments from : Change of weather.

a oa >

PARTICULARS

Mouth :
Bitter taste in mouth.

Tongue :
Coated thickly yellow, with red edges, showing imprint of teeth (Podo., Merc sol., Rhus tox.).

Abdomen :
Great distension of abdomen with gas. PAIN through stomach to back and right shoulder blade.

Gastralgia, bitter taste in mouth with nausea and vomiting. Eating relieves temporarily. WANTS
HOT FOOD AND DRINKS.

Constipation :

Stool hard, round like a ball, like sheep's dung (Plumbum, Opium). Bright yellow, clay
coloured stool, with burning and itching in anus. There is alternate diarrhoea and constipation.

Causation: Change of weather.

Time: At night (Pulsitilla, China—Diarrhoea during day, Petroleum).

Character of stool: Involuntary, bright, yellowish, brown or white, slimy.

Concomitants; There is alternate diarrhoea and constipation.

Liver :

Chelidonium is indicated in hepatic diseases, such as jaundice, when there is CONSTANT PAIN
UNDER THE LOWER and INNER ANGLE OF RIGHT SCAPULA. Yellow grey colour of the whole
skin. Wilted skin of the palms and hands. Face, forehead, nose and cheeks are remarkably yellow. There
is sluggish liver with great fermentation and accumulation of gas In the abdomen. There is nausea and

vomiting with bitter taste in mouth. The tongue |s large and flabby, yellow, showing imprint of teeth.
The patient wants very hot food and drink.

Modalities: There is aggravation from motion and touch. Amelioration from pressure.
In hepatic affection it differs from BRYONIA and LYCO, Both Bryonia and Chelidonium have sharp,

stitching pain under the right shoulder blade; both have bitter taste in mouth, and yellow tongue.
But Bryonia differs in its stool which is HARD, DRY AND BROWN, while the stool of Chelidonium is
