732 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Sympathetic heart troubles with ovarian or uterine irritation (Actea) Heart troubles
that exhibits the disorder of uterus or ovaries.

Symptoms erratic (Lac c.) Symptoms irregular in behaviour.

Synchondroses (Trill.) A union between two bones formed either by hyaline cartilage or
fibrocartilage.

Syphilitic Angina (Hydr.) Syphilitic sore throat.

Syphilitic dyscrasia (Fl. Ac., Phos. Ac., Nit. A, Syph.) A general morbid condition
associated with ulceration and destruction of tissues. A patient of syphilitic miasm is dull,
stupid, stubborn, sullen, morose and usually suspicious; Melancholic and condemn
themselves; very silent; wants to commit suicide; Forgetful and slow comprehensive.
Complaints are aggravated at night, becomes restless and anxious. Complaints are
aggravated at summer and ameliorated in winter. Ulceration and discharge of pus with
offensive odour but it ameliorates the complaints. Eruptions crusty and oozing pus, skin
greasy and sweaty; much offensive odour; sweat does not relieve. Hair tends to fall out.
Desires cold food & aversion to meat.

T

Tallow-like masses (Mag. C.) Fatlike lump.
Tangled (Borax) Inter-twine; cbnfused mass.

Tarsal (Arg. M.)
1. The root of the foot or instep. As a division of the skeleton, the seven bones of the

instep.
2. The thin elongated plates of dense connective tissue found in each eyelid, contributing
to its form and support.

Tarsal tumour (Thuj.) Tumour on the tarsipalpebra of eyes.
Tedious (Actaea) Tiresome.
Tell tale face (Sep.) The face that tells the story of the suffering.
Temperament
1. The physical organization peculiar to the individual, which influences one’s metabolic
process, manner of thought and action, and general views of life.
2. That aspect of personality which denotes a person’s emotional disposition.
Tenacious (Canth, Nux v.)

1. Adhesive, sticky; strongly cohesive.
2. Keeping a firm hold on property, principles, life etc.

Tettery eruption (Alum, Bov.) A colloquial term properly applied to eczema and occasionally
applied to other eruption.
Thin spare subjects (Calc, P.) Lean & thin person.

