458 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

oe

Stool : Whatever may be the disease whether dysentery, diarrhoea or constipation, it matters little,
if it is caused by any of the reasons stated above. Nux Vomica is the remedy if the following stool
symptoms are present:

(a) Dysentery: There is great tenesmus and mucus with stool: frequent ineffectual urging (Colch..,
Con.) with gripping pain and soft stool. There may be temporary relief and satisfaction after
stool for the time being only to renew the urge very soon. Passes small quantity of stool with muc
us and blood at a time, with sensation “as if not finished”.

(b) Constipation: With frequent ineffectual desire for stool and urine, with constrictive sensation and
pressure in rectum and anus; protruding blind piles. After stool there is temporary relief and
satisfaction only again to renew the urge suddenly. Sensation as if more stool remains to be
evacuated. Obstinate constipation and diarrhoea alternate (Ant. c., Ant. t., Podo., Sulph., Chel,
Ver. alb.) in persons who have taken purgatives during all through their previous years.

(c) Diarrhoea: Diarrhoea alternates with constipation in persons who have taken laxatives and
aromatic medicines throughout their lives. Their is frequent desire for stool, stool is watery and
offensive, passes little quantity at a time with temporary satisfaction, Urge for stool in the morning
after rising or after mental exertion, with ineffectual desire for stool and urine.

Urine : Ineffectual urging for urination: Micturition is very painful. Pain extends to genital organs
and legs. Urine passes in drops with burning, tearing pain in the urethra. Urine may be mixed with blood
due to RENAL STONE.

Respiratory symptoms :

Causation: Exposure to cold, irregular diet, coffee, tea, alcohol, etc. Respiratory troubles of gastric
origin.

Character: There is catarrhal hoarseness in throat with stitching, spasmodic, constrictive pain.
ASTHMA WITH FULLNESS IN STOMACH AND ASTHMA OF GASTRO INTESTINAL origin. Cough
with shallow respiration; oppressed breathing, violent cough. Cough dry and fatiguing, persisting from
mid-night till morning. Snuffles of infants with catarrah and coryza WHICH IS DRY AT NIGHT AND
FLUENT BY DAY.

Modalities:
¢ Aggravation: In a warm room.
* Amelioration; By sitting in cold place or on stone steps, in cold air and in damp wet weather.

Concomitants: There is bursting headache and gripping pain in the stomach. Along with cough and

asthmatic tendency, there is palpitation of the heart, especially pnf lying down after dinner; palpitation
with inclination to vomit, with ineffectual desire for stool and urine.

Menses :
Nux vomica is an infallible rernedy for menstrual disorders, and the symptoms are as follows:
* Time; Too early.
¢ Duration: Long lasting, keeping on for several days.
* Quantify: Too profuse.
* Character of blood: Dark and offensive.

Nux vomica ts an excellent remedy for Irregular menses; never in time, stopping and starting
again, menses in two weeks.
