muriatic Acid 427
re

4. Burning is a great feature of its symptomatology e.g., ulcers, tuplions; piles,
stomach and abdomen (Clarke).

5. Malignant affections of mouth. Mouth studded with ulcers which are deep
perforating and having a black or dark base.

6. Offensive secretions and foul breath from mouth in fevers of all kinds eg.,
exanthematous, typhoid, puerperal, diphtheritic, etc,

7. Patient cannot bear the thought or sight of meat (Nit. ac.).

8. Tongue of Muriatic acid is very characteristic. It is coated at edges; shrunken, dry,
leather like and paralysed; beefy tongue.

9. The pulse of this drug, especially in typhoid, intermits at every third beat.
10. Palpitation of heart is felt in the face.
11. Anus is VERY SENSITIVE, with or without piles. Anus is sore during menses.
12. Piles protrude while the person urinates (Baryta carb.). Involuntary stool while
passing urine.
13. Cannot bear the least touch not even of the bed sheet genitals..
14. Ailments from : Sun’s heat. *

PARTICULARS

Mouth :

Mouth is one of the chief seats of actions of this drug. There are malignant affection of mouth.
Mouth is studded with ulcers which are deep and perforating having a black or dark base. The breath is
very offensive.

Tongue: It is coated at edges. It is famous as BEEFY TONGUE. Tongue is shrunken, dry, leather-
like.

Diarrhoea :

There is diarrhoea while urinating, with involuntary stool. Can not urinate without having the
bowels move at the same time. Involuntary stool even, when passing wind (Phosphorus, Aloe).

Haemorrhoids :

Anus is VERY SENSITIVE either with or without haemorrhoids. Haemorrhoids are very SENSITIVE
AND PAINFUL TO TOUCH. It is swollen and blue, It may appear suddenly m children. It is too sore
to bear the least touch, even the touch of the bed sheet is uncomfortable. Haemorthoids prolapse while
urinating (Baryta cart).

Urine :

Urine passes slowly. The bladder is weak, so he has to wait for a long time to pass urine (Natrum
mur., Hepar sulph.). He has to press the aodomen so that the anus also pmtruds before urine can
pass. Cannot urinate without having the bowels move at the same time. Cannot bear least touch, even of
the bed sheet on genitals.
