perine s Bacon & Smoked meat, geen, goltrg things
Causticum 197
Aversion. Sweets  meak, woter

Location: Vertex.
Sensation: Sensation of empty space between forehead and brain.
Character of pain: Throbbing, stitching pain, with rawness and soreness.
Modalities:

¢ Aggravation: From COLD, IN CLEAR FINE WEATHER.

¢ Amelioration: In open air, INDAMP WET WEATHER.

Concomitants: Vertigo with sensation of falling forwards or sidewise. Intense photophobia with
lachrymation and drooping of eyelids.

Gastrointestinal tract :

Stomach : Bitter taste in mouth due to disordered stomach hot burning eructation. Appetite
disappears when attempting to eat. There is colicky pain in stomach compelling the patient to bend
double.

Stool : Stool may be soft or hard, but of small quantity, tough and covered with mucous, shining

like grease expelled with much straining. Stoo! passes better while standing. There is paralysis of
rectum and sphincter ani muscles. There is soreness and rawness of rectum with frequent ineffectual
desire.

Urine = Urine passes involuntarily when coughing, expelled very lowly, sometimes much straining
is required to pass urine Also urine passes involuntarily while sleeping. Loss of sensibility while passing
uririe. There may also be retention of urine after surgical operation or involuntary urinaion after fever due
to weakness of sphincter urethrae.

Respiratory Symptoms :
Throat :
* Causation: Exposure to draught of cold air.

¢ Character: There is great RAWNESS AND SORENESS in the throat with hoarseness in the

moming. Aphonia with pain in chest. Hoarseness of signers. Larynx is sore and pharynx paralysed.
Cracking in throat when swallowing.

* Cough ; There is severe cough with RAWNESS AND SORENESS IN THE CHEST.
Expectoration is scanty. Sputa cannot be raised and if raised at all, unable to expectorate and therefore,
must swallow it. Cannot cough deep enough to get relief by raising the sputa.

* Modalities: Cough is aggravated on expiration (Aconite) and IN CLEAR FINE WEATHER;
cough is relieved by drinking cold water (Cuprum met) and in damp wet weather.

* Concomitants: There is shortness of breath; involuntary passage of urine while coughing, with
pain in hip, especially left, cannot speak loudly.

Nervous Symptoms :
* Paralysis: Causticum is a GREAT PARALYSER. Paralysis Is caused by cold air, after typhoid,
diphtheria, etc.

* Location: Right sided paralysis, which is gradual In onset.

* Character; Paralysis of a single part e.g. face, extremities, vocal organs, etc. Ptosis, drooping of
upper eyelids, patient cannot keep them open (Caul., Gels., Sepia, Graphites, Rhus. tox.).

* Concomitants: Great rawness and soreness in the affected part and rigidity of flexor tendons.
