384 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

—

CONSTITUTION

Make-up of the body: It has Grauvogl’s Carbonitrogenoid constitution. Suited
especially for extremes of life, both for children and old people. Lycopodium patients are
INTELLECTUALLY KEEN, BUT PHYSICALLY WEAK. Upper part of the body ig
emaciated, lower part semi-dropsical, Unhealthy complexion, anaemic and pale
complexion, looks older than he is (Arg. nit., Sanicula, Kreosote, Secale cor., Flouric atid),

Relation with heat and cold: The patient is sensitive to cold and there is marked lack
of vital heat and worse in general from cold and cold-air and from cold food and drink
(Kent).

Miasm: Lycopodium covers all the three miasms. It is anti-psoric, anti-syphilitic and
anti-sycotic.

Diathesis: Lithic and uric acid diathesis, pre-disposed to lung and hepatic affections
(Sulph., Calc. Phos).

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. It is a leading RIGHT SIDED REMEDY. Suited for deep chronic, progressive

diseases. Complaints start on right side arid go left-throat, chest, abdomen, liver,
ovary, kidney, etc.

2. Nearly all diseases are WORSE IN THE AFTERNOON FROM 4 TO 8 P.M. This is
a very strong feature of Lycopodium.

3. Sourness of the discharges: Everything tastes sour, e.g. eurctation, heart-burn
water-brash, sour vomiting.

. Intolerance of cold drinks; craves everything warm.

. Desire for sweet things: warm food and drink, Aversion to tobacco, bread, coffee.
. Cannine hunger, but a few mouthfuls fill up to the throat.

. Acidity, wind and bloating of abdomen, especially the lower abdomen.

Red sand in urine. Child cries before urinating.

a a

. Impotency of young men from onanism or sexual excess.

10. Constipation since puberty, since last confinement, when away from home.

11. Dryness of vagina, burning, during and after coition.

12. Right sided hernia is successfully treated by this drug.

13. Hemiopia: ses only the left half of the object (Aurum met,, sees only lower half).
14. Fan-like movements of alae nasi occurring in cerebral and abdominal complaints.
15. “Half-open condition of the eyes during sleep” is a strong indication for Lyco.

16. Right foot hot and the left cold.

17. Dryness of the parts such as vagina and skin especially palms, also suggests Lyco.

18. Mind : The mental symtpome of Lycopodium are numerous and very characteristic.
The patient is tired; he has a very tired state of mind, a chronic fatigue. Dread of
