Cinchona Officinalis (China) 219

Intermittent fever :

Various Kinds of intermittent fevers are manifested by China. It may be of the tertian, or double
tertian, quotidian type, or the paroxysms may return every seventh or fourteenth day. PERIODICITY is
well-marked in the fevers but it is mever at night. Moreover, the fever is of anticipating type;
anticipates several hours each succeeding chill. The various stages of fever are well-marked, i.e. chill, heat

and sweat stages.

1. Chill: Chill is preceded by palpitation, anxiety and hunger and sometimes headache too. Chill
comes generally in the forenoon, but anticipating type. Chill over the body, increased by
drinking water. Chill of short duration. There is thirst before and after but not during the chill
stage. The patient wants to be near the stove, but it increases the chill. Chill returns every week.

2. Heat: Long lasting heat which frequently sets in late after chill. The patient wants to uncover
during heat stage. The heat stage may be thirstless or with thirst. Even if there is great thrist,
the patient wants water only to wet the mouth. The face is fiery red during the heat stage.
There is headache and often delirium if the heat is too severe.

3. Sweat: Sweat stage comes immediately after heat. There is profuse debilitating sweat. There
is great thirst during sweat. The sweat does not give any relief to the patient. Perspiration may
be noticed in sleep too.

Apyrexia is marked with debility, restlessness, loss of appetite or great hunger; anaemia, congestion,
backache, oedema, scanty urine, soreness in the liver and spleen.

Respiratory organs :

Hoarseness of voice; suffocation and suffocative catarrh; influenza with debility. There is rattling in
the chest with violent, hacking cough after every meal. Haemoptysis may be present. Oedema of glottis
and dyspnoea may be of regular and frequent occurrence. Cough is a constant factor, which is excited by
talking and laughing. After coughing there may be expectoration of clearer blood stained mucous or
sputum, with oppression of chest and stitching pain in the chest.

There may also be palpitation and congestion of chest with cold hands and intermittent weak pulse.
One hand icy cold and the other warm. Skin is extremely sensitive to touch, but relieved by hard

pressure. Coldness of the skin with debilitating sweat.
General Modalities :

Aggravation: From slightest touch, draugh to air every other day, loss of-vital fluids, at night,
after eating and bending over.

Amelioration: By bending double hard pressure, open air and warmth.

Relations :
Complementary to: Ferrum met.
Antidotes : Hepar sulph., Nux vom.
Antidoted by: Nat, mur. and Carbo veg,
Antidote to: Ars, Calc., Cham., Ferr., Hell., lod., Merc., Sulph. and Ver, alb.
Remedies of same family: Coffea, lpeacac.
Incompatible: After Dig., Selen.
