135

Bromium

motion and in the open air. lodum—Inspiration difficult and is better for cold and
worse for heat.)

8) Cold sensation in larynx on inspiration.

9) Hypertrophy of Heart from gymnastics in growing boys (from Calisthenics in young
girls, Caust).

10) Physometra : Loud emission of flatus from the vagina ; membranous
dysmenorrhoea.

11) Mind—Delusion that strange persons are looking over patients’ shoulder and that
she would see someone on turning. Quarrelsome. Sensation of cobweb on the face
(Bar. Bor. Graph).

12) Ailments from—Complaints from being, overheating (though patient is chilly).

PARTICULARS

Respiratory Symptoms

Coryza : Coryza with corrosive soreness of nose. There is pressure at the root of nose with stoppage
of right nostril. Fan like motion of alae-nasi (Ant tart, Lyco, phos) Sneezing from inhaling dust.

Hoarseness with dry cough & rawness in throat. Hoarseness coming on, from becoming overheated.

Diptheria : In diptheria the formation of diptheric membrane starts in bronchi, trachea or larynx and
extending upwards. Chest pain runs upwards. There is membranous and dipth-eritic croup with much
rattling during cough but no choking.

Cough : During whooping cough there is croupy symptoms with hoarseness. Patient gasps for
breath. Cough, spasmodic with rattling of mucus. Every inspiration provokes cough. Cold sensation in
larynx is characteristic.

Asthma : It is a very good medicine for sailors’ asthma. Sailors suffer from asthma “on shore”
or when they come on land & better at sea.

Dyspnoea : With inability to inspire deep cough. There is sensation as if breathing through a sponge
or the air passages are full of smoke or vapour of sulphur.

Sexual Symptoms :
Male : Swelling & induration of testicles with pains worse slight jar.
Female ; Menses : Too early ; too profuse with membranous shreds. Low spirited before menses.

Breast: Tumour in breasts with stitching pains, worse left. Stitch-pains from breasts to axillae: Sharp
shooting pain in left breast, worse pressure.

General Modalities :

Aggravation : From evening, until midnight. when sitting in warm room, warm, damp weather.,

Amelioration : From any motion, exercise, at sea.

Relations : Compare : in croup & croupy affections, chlor. Hep., lod, Spong. Bromium had cured
croup after failure of lod., Phos., Spong., Hep.,

Hard goitre was cured after lod. failed.

N.B. : “The Chief distinction between Brom. and lod. Is, the former cures the blue-eyed and the
latter the black-eyed patients"—Hering.
