Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

.6) Thirst: Drinks little and often ; is yomited as soon as it reaches the stomach (Ars.,
Phos.)

7) Constantly changing his occupation.
8) Nausea .and vomiting from carriage riding.
9) The odour of stool follows despite bathing (Sulph.)
10) Child keeps off clothing even in coldest weather (Hep., Sulph.)

11) Foot sweat between the toes, making them sore, offen-sive ; on soles as if he had
stepped in cold water.

12) Excoriation of skin about anus (Sulph.) covering perineum and extending to
genitals.

13) Constipation : No desire until a large accumulation ; stool partially expelled and
recedes (Sil., Thuja).

14) Diarrhoea : Changeable in character and colour, frothy, grass green, turns green on
standing.

15) Burning of soles of feet ; must uncover or put them in a cool place (Lach., Medo.,
Sang., Sulph.)

16) Ailments from : Strains, jarring.

17) Mind—Sanicula child is mentally headstrong and obsti-nate, He cries & kicks. He
is cross, irritable but his irritation quickly alternates with laughter. Child does not
want to be touched. Sanicula patient constantly changes occu-pation. He lacks
energy and is forgetful depressed and restless, He fears darkness and is afraid of
impending misfortune is easily upset by slight word or act.

PARTICULARS

Gastrointestinal Symptoms
Mouth : Tongue is large flabby and burning, must protrude to keep it cool. Ringworm on the tongue.

Stomach : Stomach is disordered from jarrying. Nausea & vomiting from carriage riding. Thirst for
little quantity of water very often. Water is vornited as soon as it reaches the stomach. Appetite is
increased, hungry before meals. He craves fat, bacon & salt.

Rectal Symptoms :

Constipation : In Sanicula there is no desire until a large accumulation ; after great straining stool
partially expelled, recedes back again (Sil., Thuja.) Crumbling at verge of anus (Mag M.) ; large evacuation
of small dry, gray balls, must be removed mechanically. (Sil. Calc.) stool is hard, impossible to evacuate :
of grayish white balls, like burnt lime and with the odour of limburger cheese.

Diarrhoea : Changeable in character and colour. Stool Is frothy, grass green, turns green on
standing. It looks like scrambled egg or scum of a frogpond. (Helb, Mag carb) After eating patient must
hurry from table. The odour of stool follows despite bathing (Sulph.) No. amount of washing can make
him get rid of it. Incontinence of faecs and urine. Sphincters unreliable so there is urging from flatus,
patient must cross legs to prevent faeces escaping. Female genital symptoms ; It acts on female genital
organs producing leucorrhoea and prolapsus uteri. Leucorrhoea with strong odour offish brine is a
characteristic symptom of sanicula.
