Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

—_

1,

ano a

12.

13.

Discharges from mucous membrane and skin are TOUGH, STRINGY WHICH
ADHERE TO THE PARTS AND CAN BE DRAWN INTO LONG STRINGS
(Hydrastis, Bovista)

. Pain in small spots that can be covered with the tip of a finger (Ign., Lil.

. Shifting pain runs through the whole of Kali bich., which is the keynote symptom of

the drug. Flying character of the pain (Puls., Lac. can), rapidly shifts from one place
to another, goes from side to side sometimes here and sometimes there. Pain comes
suddenly and disappears suddenly (Bell., Ign., Mag. phos.).

. Desire for beer, acids. Aversion to meat, water, to rise from bed, to move about.

. Oedematous bladder-like appearance of uvula. (Rhus tox., Apis).

. There is pressive pain in root of nose.

. Discharge of plugs, “clinkers”.

. Rheumatism alternates with gastric symptoms. Rheumatism alternating with

dysentery (Abrot.) calls for this remedy.

. Spottiness, stringiness and yellowishness mark the remedy.
10.
11.

Sexual desire absent in plethoric people.

Kali bich. patient is generally chilly, yet his symptoms occur and aggravate in hot
summer weather, such as skin disease, rheumatism, dysentery, etc.

Mind : ill humoured, low spirited and indifferent. Easily excited. Anxiety arises
from chest, with distress in stomach.

Ailments from : Alcohol, beer, hot weather, autumn and spring.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation : From suppressed catarrh.
Before headache, there is blurred vision or preceded by bnlindness (Gels., Nat. mur.)
Character of headache: Shifting pain from one place to another; pain comes-suddenly

and goes suddenly, Pain in small spot that can be covered with the tip of a finger.

Modalities: Aggravation from light and noise; amelioration by lying down.
Concomitant: Sight returns as headache increases,

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :

Gastric complaints generally peptic ulcers i.e. gastric and duodenal ulcer.
Causation: Bad effects of beer, alcohol.
Sensation: Weight in the pit of stomach, with loss of appetite and great flaulence.
