446 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Miasm: Nitric acid covers all the 3 miasms viz. Psora, Sycosis and Syphilis.

Diathesis: Haemorrhagic diathesis.
GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1.

a a fF SO NW

o =~

10.

11.

14.

15.

Just as in any other acid general weakness debility and feeble reaction run through
the whole of Nitric acid.

. Persons suffering from chronic diseases who take cold easily.

. Easily disposed to diarrhoea rather than constipation.

. Old people with great, weakness and morning diarrhoea.

. Physical irritability is more prominently marked than mental.

_ Extreme sensitiveness and nervous trembling; physical and nervous

irritability are the red strands of this remedy.

. Urine is very pungent and STRONG SMELLING LIKE HORSE’S URINE.
. Sensation of a band around the head, around the bones (Carb. ac, Anacardium,

Sulphur); of a splinter in affected parts, such as to ulcers, piles, throat, in growing
toe nails, which is very painful on slightest touch and contact.

. Has particular affinity for the places where skin and mucous membrane join with

CRACKS AND FISSURES and with splinter like pricking pain.

Skin : Shows ulcers, syphilitic or mercurial or both, or of a sycotic or scrofulous
base with ACRID, OFFENSIVE DISCHARGE, warts and condylomata with easily
bleeding tendency on mere touch wrm typical splinter like pain (Causticum).

Pain : Splinter-like pain comes with STICKING AND SENSATION; pain comes
suddenly and goes suddenly phos.

. Haemorrhagic tendency from mouth, nose, bowels and uterus which is profuse,

bright red or dark coloured.

. Inflammation and suppuration of glands; especially from abuse of mercury in

syphilitic people, with no tendency to heal up and repair.

Desire for fat, indigestible thing such as chalk, charcoal, stone chips, etc. (Alumina,
Cale. carb., Psorinum, Cina, Cicuta). Aversion to meat and bread.

Mind : Mental affection from continued loss of sleep, long lasting anxiety, over
exertion of mind and body, anguish from loss of a dearest and nearest friend,
chronic diseases,etc. Nitric acid patient is very nervous, excitable, peevish and
easily angered at trifling matters,

Great indifference; tired of life and is always sad, despondent, depressed and
anxious.

Great anxiety about his disease; constantly thinking about his past troubles.
Morbid fear of cholera (Arsenic),

Nirtic acid patient is very irritable and head-strong; hateful and vindictive;
inveterate and ill willed.
