530 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

2. Great rigidity, stiffness and lameness and pain are experienced on first moving the
joints after rest or on waking up in the morning; RELIEVED BY WALKING OR
CONTINUED MOTION.

3. Most complaints are relieved by movement and aggravated by rest.

4. Aggravation at night and in damp rainy weather, and relieved by heat in general
é.g., covering the body, warm application, etc.

5. Great sensitiveness to open air. Putting the hand outside from under the bed-cover
brings on cough (Hepar, Rumex, Baryta).

6. Triangular red-tipped tongue with imprint of teeth and bitter taste in the
mouth.

7. Desire for cold milk which relieves gastric complaints (In Iodium cold milk relieves
constipation and in Graph, warm milk relieves gastric symptoms).

8. Great apprehension at night; cannot remain in bed in one position.
9. Desire for sweets, beer, oysters and aversion to meat and liquor.
10. Mind : Extreme restlessness, with desire for continuous change of position.

Delirum with fear and suspicion of being poisoned (Kyos.). Sad, patient begins to
weep without knowing why.

DREAMS of great exertion, rowing, swimming and working hard at his daily
occupation (Bry.).

11. Ailments from : Spraining or straining a single part, muscle or tendon (Calc.,
Nux,), overlifting, particularly stretching high up to reach things, lying on damp
ground, FROM WETTING and too much summer bathing in lake or river; cold air;
getting wet when heated.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation: FROM BEER or too much summer bathing.

Sensation: Brain feels loose when stepping or shaking the head, Sensation of swashing in brain:
stupefying; brain feels as if torn.

Location: Frontal headache especially.
Modalities:
* Aggravation; By sitting or lying in cold.
* Amelioration; By warmth and motion.
Concomitants: Vertigo when standing or walking, aggravation when lying down, stooging (Bry.), and
amelioration when rising from bed.
Cough :

Causation: From exposure to cold or even to open air, putting hand outside from under the bed
cover brings on cough.
