7 Text Book of MAIEKIA MEDICA

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: It is ideally suited to thin and emaciated subjects DURING AND
AFTER CLIMACTERIC AGE, who have been changed both mentally and physically by
their illness; to persons having disposition to low spirit and indolence with BLUE AND
PURPLE LOOK.

Temperament: Melancholic and sad.

Relation with heat and cold: Lachesis patients cannot bear heat. They are HOT
PATIENTS and are easily affected by heat in general, under all circumstances and in all
cases.

Miasm: In Lachesis we find one of the greatest anti-psoric remedies. Psora is in the
background for all troubles.

Diathesis: Haemorrhagic diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Lachesis is predominantly A LEFT SIDED REMEDY. All complaints commence on
the left side and go to right excepting the lower limbs.

2. All symptoms are worse during and after sleep. Lachesis “sleeps into
aggravation and aggravation from sleep”. Because of increased sufferings such as
suffocation, pain, etc, the patient is terribly afraid to go to sleep in spite of the fact
that sleep is really needed.

3. Great sensitivenesss to touch, all over, especially throat, abdomen, ete. Even
cannot bear clothes to touch which cause uneasiness and produce nervousness.
There is great intolerence of tight clothings. Wants everything loose (Apis).

4. Most of the complaints ARE RELIEVED BY MENSTRUAL FLOW (Zinc).

5. Climactric ailments, “Have never been well since that time” says Lachesis patient
referring to menopausal period.

6. Burning all over the body: HOT FLUSHES AND HOT PERSPIRATION, hot
haemorrhages; burning on vertex, ete.

7. Blueness and purple colour in every trouble amply singles out Lachcesis—blue and
purple face inflamed spot is purple, skin is blue, ulcers are blue, etc.,

8. A sense of constriction and tight feeling everywhere-—heart, throat, etc.
9. Sensation of a ball in the inside or organs, especially urinary bladder.

10. Great desire for fanning, but slowly and from a distance (Med.—rapidly and from
near, Carbo. veg).

11. Great physical and mental exhaustion, trembling in whole body.

12. Trembling tongue: Difficult to protrude. Trembles like that of a snake. Tongue is
black.

13. Desire for wine, liquors, coffee, Aversion to food, acids and drinks.
