126 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

5. Pain in the stomach, relieved by bending backward and by eructation.

6. Headache alternates with gastralgia, worse after eating and better by cold bathing
and cold drinks.

7. Motion relieves most symptoms except headache.

8. Mind : The most important mental symptom of bismuth which must be
remembered is “SOLITUDE IS UNBEARABLE”. He wants and DESIRES
COMPANY ALWAYS. This is particularly noticed in children who hold mother’s
hand for company (Stramonium) and would not let her go away.

Another characteristic mental symptoms is great ANGUISH AND RESTLESSNESS,
He sits, walks and then lies, never remains for long in one place (Ars. alb.). Delirium
tremens with loss of consciousness.

Mental apathy with insensibility is found in Bismuth.
9. Ailments from : Syphilis, heat and summer complaints, abdominal operations.

PARTICULARS

Vomiting :

Vomiting of water in large quantity as soon as it reaches the stomach, but solid food is retained for

a long time until large accumulation takes place in the stomach, which also is vomited out later on in
decomposed form which is very offensive.

There is convulsive gagging and inexpressible pain in the stomach due to accumulation of solid
portion of food.

Such pain may also appear after laparotomy.
Concomitants: Headache returns every winter, alternating or attended with gastralgia.

Stomach :

Due to accumulation of large amount of solid food particles and stool, there is great pressure as from
a load in one spot. There is great pain which is crampy and spasmodic in nature, with irritation, cardialgia
and pyrosis.

Stool :
Since food gets accumulated in the stomach .for several days, stool becomes very much profuse.
offensive and cadaverous smelling.

Cholera :

Bismuth is one of the best remedies for cholera infantum and cholera morbus, usually occurring is
summer.

¢ Causation: Cholera is usually Caused in summer and In cholera epidemic time.
* Onset: The onset is sudden and Its course Is rapid.

* Character: There is profuse vomiting and purging. Water is vomited out the moment it reaches
stomach but solid food is retained a bit longer. In Bismuth cholera, vomiting predominates over purging:
