Aesculus Hippocastanum 25

6) Thin, watery burning coryza with characteristic rawness & sensitiveness to cold air.
7) Back “gives out” during pregnacny, prolapsus and leucorrhoea.

8) Mind : Aesculus hip. patients are, as a rule despondent gloomy and irritable. They
lose temper easily and gain control slowly and are also miserably cross.

PARTICULARS

Nose:

Mucous membrance is dry, swollen. Inspired air feels cold & nasal passages are sensitive to cold air.
Sneezing, followed by severe coryza with thin watery burning discharge and sensation of rawness.

Modality : Aggravation ; Cold air, after washing.

Throat:

A medicine for follicular pharyngitis where dry-ness, roughness, rawness & sensitiveness to inspired
air are characteristic symptoms. There is also violent burning like fire on swallowing. Frequent inclination
to swallow, with burning, pricking, stinging and dry constricted fauces. Patient hawks ropy mucus of
sweetish taste.

Backache :

Location-Aesculus Hip. has special affinity for lumbo-sacral articulation. Severe dull backache in
lumbosacral articulation which is more or less constant. There is sensation of heaviness and lameness in
back.

Modality: | Aggravation—Motion, walking, stooping Concomitant :Backache associated with
constipation, piles, prolapsus uteri, leucorrhoea.

Rectal Symptoms :

Constipation :

Stool is large dry, hard & difficult to pass. Stool followed by fullness of rectum and intense pain in
anus for hours. There is dryness and heat of rectum. Constipation with severe lumbosacral backache.

Haemorrhoids :

Haemorrhoids blind, painful burning & purplish, rarely bleeding. Rectum sore with fulness, burning

and itching. Dryness & heat of rectum, with sensation as if rectum is full of small sticks. Knife-
like pains shoot up the rectum,

Relations :
Similar: To Aloe., Coll., Ign., Mur.ac., Nux., Sulph., in haemorrhoids.

After collinsonia has improved piles, Aesc. often cures.
Useful after Nux and Sulph. have improved, but failed to cure piles.
