300 Text Book of MATERIA saat

Concomitants: Vertigo as if intoxicated. Nausea, vomiting and eructation especially during menses,
along with headache, itching of scalp; burning on vertex.

Ears:

Hears better when in a noise, when riding in a carriage or when there is a rumbling sound

(Nitric.acid), Loss of hearing with dryness of ears; cracking, humming and roaring in ears. Swelling of the
glands under the ear.

Castro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : Sour, salty, bitter or putrid taste in the mouth like rotten eggs, with frequent eructations
tasting of ingesta. Foul odour from mouth; increased salivation with much spitting.

Stomach : There is nausea and vomiting especially in the morning; griping colic with constrictive
pain below umbilicus. Periodic gastralgia with vomiting of entire food immediately after eating. Chronic
catarrh in the stomach with frequent eructation. Pain is relieved by drinking hot milk.

Diarrhoea : The patient gives a definite history of habitual constipation but suffers occasionally from
diarrhoea too.

* Causation: Diarrhoea from suppressed skin eruption and alcohol (Petroleum).

* Character of stool: Stool is brown, fluid mixed with undigested substances of an
intolerable foetid odour. The diarrhoea is usually painless.

* Concomitants: Associated with purging, vomiting and ice cold sweat.

Constipation : Graphites patient is generally constipated. The stool is very hard, in sia lumps,
difficult to evacuate, knotty; lumps are united together with mucous threads.

There may be dryness of mucous membrane of rectum, with fissure of anus. There is sharp, smarting

and sore pain in anus after stool. Haemorrhoid protrudes while passing stool, associated with burning
pain, cracks and fissure.

Modality: Constipation is relieved by drinking hot milk (Rhus tox.—lodum, by cold milk).

Menses : é-
Time: Delayed from getting feet wet.
Quantity: Too scanty.
Duration: Short.
Character of blood; Too pale.

Concomitants: There is violent colicky pain during menses. There may also be moming sickness at
the time of menstruation. The patient is weak and prostrated. Leucorrhoea before or after menses in
FAT, CHILLY and. CONSTIPATED ladies. Swelling and pain in right ovarian region before and during
menses.

Leucorrhoea :

In a Graphites patient, leucorrhoea appears before and after menses and it is very much acrid, and
excoriating; OCCURS IN GUSHES DAY AND NIGHT.

Skin :

Graphites is a great remedy for all sorts of skin eruptions with a tendency towards malignancy e.g.
keloid, fibroma, pimples, acne, eczema, cancer of the breast, hard and painful cicatrices which have got
