FERRUM PHOSPHORICUM

"Synonym : Common Names:
Ferri phosphas Phosphate of Iron

Ferr Phos is the pre-eminent Biochemic First =

Aid, It is the oxygen carrier. It enters into the Et r
composition of haemoglobin. It takes up oxygen Feo
from the air inhaled by the lungs and carries it in 7A
the blood stream to all parts of the body thus |

helps to sustain life. Without a proper balance of
iron in the blood, health cannot be maintained.

When a deficiency in this cell-salt occurs, the
circulation is increased, for the blood tries to
carry enough oxygen to all the tissues of the body
with the limited amount of iron at hand, and in
order to do so must move rapidly; exactly as seven men must move faster in order to
accomplish as much work as could ten, moving at a slower pace.

This increased motion being changed to heat, by the law of the conservation of
energy, is called fever. It is not the fever or heat alone that causes the condition of “not
at ease “ in the patient, but the deficiency in iron molecules, and a consequent lack of
oxygen. This molecular disturbance soon breaks up continuity of other cell-salts. A
deficiency in potassium chloride nearly always follows a deficiency in iron, unless the
missing links be quickly supplied. The cell-salt potassium chloride controls the fibrin in
the circulation, and when the particles of salt fall below the standard, a portion of fibrin,
not having workmen to use it, becomes a disturbing element and leaves the vital
circulation. If it is thrown off through the lungs, a cough is produced (nature’s spasmodic
effort to get rid of the heteroplasm). In some instances the lung tissue becomes so
irritated and inflamed that the doctors declare that the ° cold ” settled on the lungs and
gave the patient the pneumonia. If the fibrinous exudation is thrown off through the
nasal passages, it is called catarrh. The word catarrh is from the Greek, and simply
means to “drop down,” therefore, is no help to the pathology of the condition.

ferrum
phosphoricum
CL, Laer et

|
U
—-

A lack of ferrum molecules, viz.: a proper balance in the blood, is the cause of
“colds.” When a deficiency of iron occurs, nature, or the natural law, draws the blood
away from the outer parts, the skin, in order to carry on the process of life more perfectly
about the heart, lungs, liver, stomach, brain, etc. A lack of blood in the minute blood-
vessels of the skin allows the pores to close, and waste matter that should escape by this
route is turned upon the inner organs. This accumulation, together with certain organic
matter thrown out of the blood, caused by deficiencies in certain inorganic salts, forms
the exudation of colds, catarrh, pneumonia, pleurisy, ete.

For all such conditions, whenever there is inflammation, under whatever name it
may be known, Ferr. phos. is the chief remedy. Hence [ron Phosphate (Ferrum Phos) is
considered as “Inflammation Remedy”

673
