392 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

2. The patients are extremely sensitive both mentally and physically, e.g., sensitive to
touch, cold air, etc.

. Extreme acidity and sourness which run throughout the length and breadth of
Mag. carb.,(N.M. Choudhury),e.g, sour eructation, sour vomiting and sour stool.

. Inordinate craving for meat in children,
. Milk passes undigested in nursing children. (Milk causes diarrhoea, Natrum carb.).
. The stool is GREEN, FROTHY, LIKE SCUM ON A FROG POND.

. Menstrual flow ONLY AT NIGHT OR WHEN LYING DOWN, ceases when walking
(Kreosote, Amrnon. carb ; rev. of Cactus Causticum, Sabina, Bovista).

. The whole body feels tired and painful, especially the legs and feet.

. A remedy for nerve exhaustion resulting in nervous irriation and sleeplessness,
Unrefreshing sleep; more tired on rising than when retiring.

10. Craving for meat and acids and fruits; aversion to milk.

11. Intense neuralgic toothache and nausea during pregnancy reminds one of Mag. carb.

12. Facial neuralgia of left side shooting like lightning, worse from touch, change of
temperature; cannot stay in bed, must walk on the floor.

13. Mind : Mentally the patient is very nervous, sad, despondent and morose; constaot

absence of mind. The patient is extremely sensitive to noise; slightest noise irritates
him.

14. Ailments from : Dentition, milk, mental distress, shocks and blows.

Aa ao oO > wo

©o oo

PARTICULARS

Headache :

There is neuralgic pain and headache.
Location: Headache is felt on the left side.
Sensation: As if the hair was pulled out (Hypericum).

Character: Sticking pain on the side of head on which he lies. Lightning type of pain makes the
patient get up and walk.

Modalities: Worse from mental exertion and better from walking about.
Toothache :

Toothache appears especially DURING PREGNANCY Root of the tooth is more affected.

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :
Abdomen : ACIDITY, FLATULENCE AND DYSPEPSIA are very well-marked.
* Location: Especially in the right iliac region.
* Sensation: Heaviness with rumbling and gurgling In abdomen,

© Character: There is heart burn with sour belching and eructation. There may also be
vomiting of bitter water. Pain in the stomach after eating even a normal quantity of food; feels bloated
after-eating, much flatulence after gating.

There is inordinate craving for meat, acids and fruits and aversion to milk.
