252 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA
por viaum ds Pern
7. For skin eruptions such as erythema, erysipelas, eczeina, herpes, pustules,

throughout the body which itch exceedingly, but very much sensitive to touch,
Croton tig. is infaillible.

PARTICULARS

Diarrhoea :
Causation: Fron fruits, _Sweet-meat. and hot summer weather.
Before stool: There is is swashing sensation in intestine as from water, and colic before diarrhoea.
During stool: Constant urging to stool, followed by SUDDEN EVACUATION.
The bowels are moved as if by “SPASMODIC JERKS, COMING OUT LIKE A SHOT”.

Character of stool: Gushing of thin, yellow, watery stool, profuse in quantity, is the striking
feature of Croton tig.

Concomitants: With stool, the stomach is greatly distended and very much sensitive to touch with
much gurgling in bowels.

Modality: Aggravation from eating, drinking or even while eating and summer.

Cough :
Cough especially at night, often compelling the patient to rise from a sound sleep.

Character of cough: Violent spasmodic with dyspnoea, choking, more at night, obliging the
patient to sit up. Sensitive to deep breathing.

Extreme irritation of air passage, so that the inhalation of air brings on cough.
Modality; Cough aggravated from lying down, as soon as the head touches the pillow at night.

Breast :
There is drawing pain through the chest from breast to scapula of the same side, every time the child
nurses. (Pain extends from nipple all over—Phytolacca; from nipple to uterus—Puls., Silicea)

Skin :
Eczema all over the body, especially of scalp and genital organs, either-purely vesicular or pustular.
The vesicles dry up and are followed by red, raw, inflamed surface.

Intense itching of skin, but it is so tender that the patient is unable to scratch, instead rubs gently te
get relief, There is also severe itching on genitals in both sexes which may be vesicular or pustular but
very much sensitive and sore but gentle rubbing gives relief and comfort.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: Diarrhoea by every motion, from eating and drinking, even while eating the least food
and drink.

Relations :
Antidoes: Rhus tox.
Antidoted by: Antim. tart.
