Nux Vorica 459

—_

* Concomitants: All complaints appear at onset, remain during and afterwards. Aggravation of all
old complaints with ineffectual desire for stool and urine. Prolapse of uterus during merises. Metrorrhagia
with sensation as if bowels will move.

Lobour pain :

Violent, spasmodic labour pain, causing sudden urge to pass stool and urine. Tendency to faint after
every labour pain; ineffectual labour pain, extends to rectum; pain aggravates in the back; patient prefers
a warm room.

Hernia :

It is capable of curing cases of STRANGULATED hernia, particularly umbilical in children (Lyco.,
Plurnbum, Aconite).

Lumbago :

Backache in lumbar region. Sitting is very painful. Back is very sensitive to touch. Numbness of the
back as if paralysed, worse from 3 to 4 a.m. Backache from sitting on a cold stone; sexual excess and
from masturbation. Must sit up and turn the body in bed before he can look around.

Fever :

Nux vomica is particularly indicated in intermittent fever. During fever, the patient MUST BE
COVERED FROM HEAD TO FOOT IN EVERY STAGE; CHILL, HEAT AND SWEAT.

Cold stage: Predominates. There is great repugnance to cold or to cold air. Very chilly on least
movement, or being uncovered. Chill not relieved by external heat. During chill stage there isexcessive

rigor and shuddering.

During heat stage: There is great heat on the entire body. Whole body burns hot, with red and hot
face; still the patient cannot move or uncover without being chilly.

Concomitants: Ineffectual urging for stool and urine, bitter taste in mouth with gastric disorder.

General Modialities :

Aggravation: Morning, waking at 4 a.m., by mental exertion, after eating or over-eating, touch,
noise, anger, spices, narcotics, during dry weather and in cold air.

Amelioration; In the evening, while at rest; lying down, and in damp wet weather (Caust, Hepar.
Med).

Relations :
Complimentary to: Sulphur in nearly all diseases, Sepia.
Inimical to: Zincum met. Must not be used before or after.
Follows well after: Ars., Ipecac., Phosphorus, Sepia, Sulphur.
Is followed by: Bryonia, Pulsatilla, Sulphur.

Note : Nux should be given at the time of retiring or, what \s better, at the time of several hours
before going to bed, AS IT ACTS BEST DURING REPOSE OF MIND AND BODY (Thuja).
