674 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

It gives strength and toughness to the circular walls of the blood vessels, especially
the arteries. Freely circulating, oxygen-rich blood is essential to health and life, and for
this reason Ferr Phos should always be considered as a supplementary remedy, no
matter what other treatment may be indicated by the symptoms.

CHARACTERISTIC INDICATIONS

1. Fever : A deficiency of this cell salt is the cause of fevers and inflammatory
conditions and so indicated in all febrile disturbances and in inflammatory and
congestive diseases at the beginning, especially before exudation has commenced.
The principal accompaniments of these conditions calling for Ferrum Phos are
manifested by flushed face, fever with full pulse, hot, dry skin, thirst, pain and
redness of the part. It should be administered at frequent intervals until the
inflammatory symptoms subside.

Useful in the first stage of enteric, gastric, typhoid, typhus, rheumatic and scarlet
fever, measles,chicken-pox,small-pox, etc., for the heat and congestion. Intermittent
fever, with vomiting of food; catarrhal fever, with quickened pulse and chilly
sensations.

2. Respiratory Organs : All inflammatory conditions of the respiratory tract, in the
first stage, for the fever, heat and pain. Pneumonia, bronchitis, pleuritis, tracheitis,
etc., in the inflammatory stage, and, indeed, as long as the pain lasts. It is followed
well by Kali mur. in the second stage or that of expectoration of white mucus.
Hemorrhages from the lungs, blood bright red. Expectoration scanty, streaked with
blood. Soreness of the chest. Breathing short and hurried at the beginning or during
the course of the disease, when there is heat and fever present. Cold in the chest,
with hard, dry cough and soreness in the lungs (Kali mur.’). Acute, painful, short,
irritating cough. In the beginning of all coughs and colds this is the first remedy.
Croup and whooping-cough, for the febrile conditions. Asthma, for the soreness of
the chest. Painful hoarseness and huskiness of speakers and singers, when due to
the irritation of the bronchii (Calc. phos.). Congestion of the lungs, acute or chronic,
with oppression and pain; catch in breath, pleurisy, pain in the side, in first stage.

3. It a first aid remedy for haemorrhages from any orifice of the body. Bleeding from
wounds, cuts and abrasions can be controlled with a little powdered Ferr Phos,

applied directly to the injured parts. A few tablets may be crushed for this purpose
or the tablets may be dissolved and used as a lotion.

4. Especially effective in anemic people. It is also indicated where there is a lack of red
blood corpuscles, as in anaemia.

5. Most of the ailments under this salt are of a congestive nature and are, therefore,
relieved by cold and aggravated by motion.

6. Ferr Phos. should also be thought of as a first-aid in cases of muscular strains,
sprains etc.

7. It is an excellent remedy for ailments associated with advancing years and it is one
of the most frequently needed remedies in the treatment of children’s ailments.
