Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :

Mouth : Bad, Slimy and bitter taste in the mouth and much saliva. Gums separate from the teeth.
Blood and pus ooze out from gums; pyorrhoea, aphtae; tongue coated white. There is toothache only
when eating with throbbing. Toothache is worse when touched by anything cold or warm.

Stomach :

Causation : Gastric disorders from ice cream or ice-water.

Dyspepsia of old people with burning, acidity or bloating and gagging; feeling of a lump in the pit of
stomach. There is sour eructation with nausea, ending jn sour vomiting. Vorniting is better by lying down.
Constant feeling as if the stomach were full of water. Anxiety felt in stomach. Throbbing and cutting pain

in the stomach with disgust for food. There is a feeling of anxiety from the stomach. Epigastrium is
extremely SENSITIVE TO TOUCH EXTERNALLY,

Stitching pain in the liver region. Excessive flatulence. Everything eaten or DRUNK APPEARS TO
BE CONVERTED into gas (lodum). Abdomen is distended and sensitive; feels as if it would burst. Chronic
liver troubles with soreness, jaundice and dropsy. There is pain from left hypochondrium to abdomen.
The patient must turn on right side before he can rise.

Stool : Stool is insufficient and soft. Stoo! mixed with blood. Ineffectual urging to stool. Rectum feels
too weak to expel it. Constipation during menstruation. Stool is like sheep's dung. Expelled with much
exertion. In the anus there is burning, stitching, cutting and soreness. Burning and gripping in rectum.

Haemorrhoids : With stitching and burning pain; piles protrude during stool wih much bleeding.
Piles are large, swollen, painful and very sensitive, Itching with ulceration around the anal orifice. There
may also be pain in haemorrhoid when coughing.

Respiratory Symptoms :
Whatever may be the disease whether pneumonia, bronchitis, phthisis, laryngitis, etc., it matters litte.
Kali carb. may be thought of if the following symptoms are present.

There is shortness of breath at night with complete hoarseness of voice. Raw pain in larynx on
coughing. Cough is worse between 2 to 4a.m. Paroxysmal cough from tickling in throat, spasmodic with
gagging and vomiting; suffocative with dryness in larynx; acute pain in chest while coughins.
Expectoration of small round lumps from throat. STITCHING AND CUTTING PAIN IN THE CHEST or

inspiration, which is worse on lying down and during rest. Sore pain in chest from talking, breathing.
lifting, and pressure.

Modalities: Aggravation at night, 2-4 a.m. from cold, lying on painful side and during rest.

Amelioration by warm weather, moving and rocking.

Asthma : Dyspnoea, palpitation and suffocative respiration.

Relieved by sitting up and leaning forward and by rocking. Aggravation from cold, between 2 t&
4a.m,

Menses :

First menses difficult and delayed In young girls, Thereafter, the character of menses may be.
Time: Early or too late.

Quantity: Profuse or scanty.

Duration: Short lasting.

Character of blood: Pale red,
