r

sanicula 551
ie

Prolapsus of Uterus : Weakness, bearing down as if contents of pelvis would escape. She desires
to support parts by placing hand against vulva. (Lil., Mur.). Soreness of uterus & vagina feels large.

Modalities :
Aggravation :Walking misstep or jar.
Amelioration : By rest, lying down.

skin :

Skin of Sanicula patient is dirty, greasy, brownish & wrinkled. Skin about neck is wrinkled & hangs
in folds (Abrp., lod., Nat. M., Sars.) Due to wrinkling, child looks old. Profuse, scaly dandruff on scalp,
eyebrows, and beard. There is soreness behind ears with discharge of white gray, viscid fluid (Graph.,
Psor.) Excoriation of skin about anus (Sulph.)., covering perineum and extending to genitals. Sweat of
sanicula is very characteristic. Head & neck of children sweat profusely during sleep, wets the pillow far
around. (Gal., Sil.) Foot sweat is very offensive & acrid causing soreness between the toes. Sweat on soles

as if he had stepped in cold water. Burning of soles of feet; patient must uncover or put them in a cool
place (Lach., Medo., Sang. Sulph.)

Modalities :
Agg. : In warm room ; by scratching.

Baby : Look of the baby — Sanicula baby looks old, dirty, greasy & brownish, skin about neck
wrinkled, hangs in folds. Child is emaciated. Baby has scrofulous diathesis.

Mind : Mentally child is headstrong., obstinate, cries & kicks. He is cross, irritable, does not want
to be touched and has dread of downward motion.

Tongue : Large, flabby, burning ; must protrude it to keep it cool, ringworm of tongue.
Thirst: Child drinks little & often ; is vomited as soon as it reaches the stomach.

Sweat: Head & neck of child sweat profusely while sleep-ing wetting the pillow far around. Child
also has offensive foot sweat, between toes making them sore. Sweat on soles, as if he had stepped in
cold water.

Stool: Child may be constipated or diarrhoeic but the odour of stool follows despite bathing.

Constipation : There is large evacuation of small dry, gray balls, must be removed mechanically.
After great straining stool partially expelled & recedes.

Diarrhoea : In diarrhoea stool is changeable in character & colour. It is frothy, grass green like
scum.of a frog pond.

Skin : There is excoriation of skin about anus Governing perineum & extending to genitals. Child
has soreness behind ears with discharge of white gray viscid fluid. In emaciation, skin of face looks dirty,
greasy & brownish. Skin about neck wrinkled & hangs in folds.

Relations:

Compare : Abrot., Alum., Gale., Sil., Sulph.
