ALLEN’S KEY NOTE — an easy explanation 733

Threatened abortion (Sec. c.) Crampy pains and slight show of blood that may or may not
be followed by the expulsion of the foetus during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy. Cervix
remains closed and there is a possibility of continuation of pregnancy.

Tickling cough (Ham. V.) Cough with a creeping tingling sensation in the throat.
Titillating cough (Dros.) Tickling cough.

Tobacco heart (Tab.) The occurrence of numerous ectopic beat produced by smoking in
susceptible individual.

Tonicity (Caulo.) Healthy elasticity of muscles ete.
Too ugly to live (Cham.) Repulsive.
Tormenting (Caulo., Lil. T.) Severe bodily or mental suffering.

Tornado (Carbo. An.) Violent storm of small extent with whirling winds esp. in W. Africa at
beginning and end of rainy season : Hurricane.

Torpid (Hep. S.) Sluggish.

Torpor (Plum.) Mentally sluggish.

Tossing about (Coffea) Move restlessly from side to side or up and down.
Tottering (Alum:) Standing or walking unsteadily.

Translucent (Phyt.) Transmitting light but not transparent.
Transudation (Crot. T.) The passage of a fluid through a melnbrane.
Treading on nails (Hyp.) Setting down foot on nails.

Trifle (Cocc.) Thing, fact, circumstance, of little value or importance.

Trismus (Cicutd) Lockjaw; a firm closing of the jaw due to tonic spasm of the muscles of
mastication from disease of the motor branch of the trigeminal nerve, usually associated
with and due to general tetanus.

Tubercular diathesis (Chel., Rumex, Spong., Tub.) The individuals of this diathesis are tall,
lean and thin with a flat narrow chest, narrow subcostal angle, narrow facies due to their
peculiar mental make-up and are easily affected by hurry, worry and emotional stress.
They take cold easily and suffer from glandular swellings, tonsillitis, cough and catarr-,
hal inflammation. Usually they give a history of Tuberculosis in their family and are very
much susceptible to be attacked with Tuberculosis.

Tubercles (Led.)
1, A small rounded prominence usually on bone.

2. The specific lesion produced by Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Tumefied (Phyt.) Swollen.
Tumultuous heart action (Amy!. Nit.) Viole’nt palpitation disorderly.
Tympanitis (Tereb.) Abdominal distension due to accumulation of gas in the intestine.

Typhoid fever (Tarax.) An infectious fever usually spread by contam-ination of food, milk or
water supplies with salmonella typhi. The most important member of the enteric group of
fevers.
