‘a

giochemic System of Medicine 661

7. KALI SULPH (Potassium Sulphate)
8. MAG PHOS (Magnesium Phosphate)
9. NAT MUR (Sodium Chloride)

10. NAT PHOS (Sodium Phosphate)

11. NAT SULPH (Sodium Sulphate)

12. SILICA (Silica Oxide)

INORGANIC CONSTITUENTS OF CELLS

The principal inorganic materials of nerve-cells are Mag-nesia phos., Kali phos.,
Natrum and Ferrum. Muscle-cells contain the same, with the addition of Kali mur.
Connective tissue-cells have for their specific substance Silica, while that of the
elastic tissue-cells is probably Calcarea fluor. In bone-cells we have Calcarea fluor
and Magnesia phos. and a large proportion of Calcarea phos. This latter is found in small
quantities in the cells of muscle, nerve, brain and connective tissue. Cartilage and
mucous cells have for their specific inorganic material Natrum mur., which is found
also in all solid and fluid parts of the body. Hair and the crystalline lens contain,
among other inorganic substances, also Ferrum. The carbonates, as such, are, according
to Moleschott, without any influence in the process of cell-formation

THE PRINCIPAL INORGANIC MATERIALS OF CELLS

Nerve-cells - Magnesia phos., Kali phos., Natrum and Ferrum.
Muscle-cells - Magnesia phos., Kali phos., Natrum and Ferrum., Kali mur.
Connective tissue-cells have - Silica

Elastic tissue-cells - Calcarea fluor.

Bone-cells - Calcarea fluor, Magnesia phos. and a large proportion of
Calcarea phos.

Cartilage and mucous cells - Natrum mur.
Hair and the crystalline lens - among other inorganic substances, also Ferrum.

* Calc. phos is found in small quantities in the cells of muscle, nerve, brain and
connective tissue.

* Natrum mur. also found in all solid and fluid parts of the body.

PREPARATION AND DOSE
The Tissue Remedies are prepared for therapeutic purposes, like all homoeopathic
remedies, according to the decimal! or centesimal scale in trituration or dilution.

SCHUSSLER'S OWN PROCEDURE

At first Schussler began with the sixth centesimal or twelfth decimal trituration; but
he, very early in his practice, adopted the sixth decimal preparation as the one most

i
