304 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Extreme soreness of the part.

Hamamelis can be used both internally and externally in solution taking 1 part of mother tincture
and 9 parts of aqua dest for such condition, at the same time, for rapid improvement.
Injury :

Like Arnica, Calendula, etc. Hamamelis is also a very good medicine for injury, where there is
continuous bleeding from the injured surface.

Bleeding may be internal, or external, the character of blood being PASSIVE, DARK WITH
SORNESS OF THE PARTS. Wounds.from which continuous bleeding takes place, be it incised, lacerated
or contused, or caused from falls, it matters little. Hamamelis can bring appreciable results.

If the mother tincture of Hamamelis is applied on cuts or wounds, it will arrest bleeding, remove pain
and soreness and prevent suppuration.

Traumatic conjunctivities :

Suggilation, or extravasation into chambers of eyes, from severe coughing; intense soreness (Arnica,

Calendula, Ledurn) can be successfully treated by this great remedy, It hastens absorption of intraocular
haemorrhage.

Piles :

Bleeding piles. Bleeds profusely, with burning, soreness, fulness and heaviness as if back would
break; urging to stool, bluish colour, anus feels sore and raw. Prostration is out of proportion to amount
of blood lost (Hydrastis).

Femafe genital organs :

Menses : Flow dark and profuse, with soreness in abdomen; after a blow on ovary or a fall; all
sufferings aggravate at menstrual period (Actaea, Pulsatilla).

Menorrhagia occurring mid-way between menstrual periods. Vagina is very tender. Vaginismus.
Haemorrhoids and sore nipples, after confinement.
Rheumatism : Sore bruised feeling. When Arnica fails, think of Hamamelis.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: From motion, mental or physical strain,,warmth, moist air, touch, afternoon and
bending forward.

Amelioration: Outdoor and open alr,
Relations :

Complementary to: Ferrum met, in haemorrhages and haemorrhagic diathesis.

Compare: Amica, Calendula, for trauma, and to hasten absorption of intraocular haemorrhage.
Antidoted by: Arn., Cup., Puls.
