a

magnesia Phosphorica 397

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. It affects the right side of the body, generally head, ear, face, chest, ovary, sciatic
nerve (Chel., Lyco., Ciusticum, Kali carb., Bry., Merc. sol.).
9. Great desire of cold air, of uncovering, of touching the affected part, of cold, of
bathing or washing.

3. Colicky pain in abdomen forcing the patient to bend double, RELIEVED BY HEAT
AND WARMTH. RUBBING AND HARD PRESSURE (colocynth).

4. It is the best medicine for all sorts of pain, especially CRAMPING. SHOOTING
LIKE A LIGHTNING. Pains are sharp, cutting, stabbing, stitching, lightning like
coming and going rapidly. The pain rapidly changes from place to place. It is
RELIEVED BY HEAT, WARMTH AND BY PRESSURE but aggravated by COLD
IN GENERAL, from motion and in open air.

During menses, pain is relieved when flow begins (Lach., Zincum met.).

_ All the symptoms are worse from 4-9 p.m. (Colocynth).

. Enuresis after catheterization.

. Ailments from : Standing in cold water or working.with cold clay; dentition, cold
winds, cold water, catheterization.

on non

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Suitable specially for headache of school girls (Calc, phos., Nat. mur., Psor., Tuber.).
Causation: From cold air.

Location: Right sided headache.

Sensation: As if a cap is on head.

Character of headache: Headache begins jn the occiput and extends over the head, especially in
right side (Sang., Sil.) with sudden flushes and red face. Pain is neuralgic in character. The pain is darting,
stabbing, shooting, stitching and rapidly changing. Pain comes suddenly and goes suddenly.

Modalities: Aggravation from 10 to 11 a.m., or 4 to 5 p.m. from mental exertion or hard study,
emotion, touch, open air, and relieved by external heat, hard pressure and rubbing.

Neuralgia :

Mag. phos. is one of the GREAT ANTI NEURALGIC REMEDIES, Neuralgia, especially of face, supra
or intra orbital; right sided neuralgia. It is sharp, shooting, cutting and Is almost unendurable. The pain
darts along the course of a nerve like a lightning flash and rapidly changes place. There is intermittent
paroxysm which is almost unbearable driving the patient to frenzy. The pains are aggravated by motion
and DRAUGHT OF COLD AIR and are invariably better BY HEAT, WARMTH, pressure and bending
double.

Toothache :

Ulceration of teeth, with severe neuralgic pain. There is sharp, cutting, stabbing, shooting pain in
lightning like flash and rapidly changing place. Comes In intermittent paroxysms, almost unbearable,
fiom
