Caulophylium 193

. Spasmodic rigid os, unable to dilate.

. Passive type of haemorrhage is a very striking feature.

. Leucorrhoea in little girls, is successfully dealt with it.

. Habitual abortion from uterine debility can be remarkably controlled by this drug.

. Upper eyelids are heavy; have to be raised up with the fingers (Caust., Gels., Rhus
tox., Sepia).

8. For all ailments DURING PREGNANCY PARTURITION AND LACTATION,
CAULOPHYLLUM IS AN EXCELLENT REMEDY.

af 8 » &

PARTICULARS

Labour pain :

Causation: Delayed labour due to spasmodic rigid os.

Character of pain: Needle-like pricking pain in cervix. False labour pain, short, irregular, spasmodic
pain, erratic pains, changing places every few minutes. Pains are intermittent, paroxysmal and spasmodic.

During labour: Useless pain in the beginning of labour, with no progress of labour pain.

After panis: After long exhausting labour, there is spasmodic pain across lower abdomen extending
to groins.

After labour: Haemorrhage after hasty labour, passive type of haemorrhage, BLOOD OOZES OUT
WITH WANT OF TONICITY.

There is passive type of lochia which is protracted, oozing out for days from relaxed vessels.

When the above mentioned symptoms are present, if Caulophyllum is given, it will correct deranged
Vitality and produce efficient pains.

During last 2 or 3 weeks of pregnancy, if a dose of 30th potency is given daily, it will make, labour
easy.
Haemorrhage :

Suited to Haemorrhage in case of habitual abortion.

Causation: From uterine debility.

Character of blood: Passive type of haemorrhage; blood oozes out with want of tonicity.

Pain: There is severe, spasmodic, paroxysmal pain in the abdomen which flies in all directions.

Caulophyllum is one of our best remedies to arrest the abortive process.

Leucorrhoea :
Usually found in Jittle girls,

Character; Very much acrid and exhausting leucorrhoea. This |s due to congestion of uterus and
is associated with bearing down pain with moth spots on forehead and ptosis of the upper eye lids.

Rheumatism :
It is an important remedy in reheumatism, but it has a special affinity for small joints.
