522 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

2. Cough worse from changing air or room.

3. Chilly patient : Aggravation from cold in general and relief by warmth and
covering.

4. Left lung especially lower lobe, is predominantly affected.

5. Touching the throat pit brings on paroxyms of couqh.

6. Eruption on various parts, aggravation from cold and cold afr, amelioration BY
WARMTH AND COVERING.

PARTICULARS

Respiratory Symptoms :
Coryza : It suits to both acute and chronic catarrhal states.

Nose is obstructed; dry sensation in posterior nares. Often coryza starts with a marked dryness in the
posterior nares. Violent sneezing is a frequent occurrence.

Modalities:
* Aggravation: In the evening, at night and FROM COLD AIR.
¢ Amelioration: BY WARMTH AND COVERING.
Concomitants : This catarrhal state is commonly accompanied by morning diarrhoea.
Cough :
Causation: EXPOSURE TO COLD AIR.
Location: Lower lobe of left lung is generally affected.(Nat. sulph., Syphilinum).

Sensation: Tickling sensation in throat pit with rawness. Sensation of Jump in throat; descends on
swallowing but returns immediately.

Character of cough: Dry, incessant, fatiguing cough, hoarse barking cough WITH TICKLING
SENSATION.

Dry teasing cough preventing sleep. Touching the throat-pit causes dry teasing cough. Cough with
pain behind the sternum.

Character of sputa: Usually there is no expectortion but sometimes, in the frist stage, there is thin,
watery, frothy expectoration; later it becomes yellowish, thick, tough, and tenacious; so ropy and stringy
that the patient is exhausted from his efforts to expectorate the tough sputa.

¢ Aggravation: The patient is extremely sensitive to open air. EVEN CHANGING AIR OR ROOM
BRINGS ON COUGH; FROM SLIGHTEST INHALATION OF COLD AIR, IN THE EVENING, after lying

down and especially on left side. Touching or pressing the throat pit and lying on left side. Anything
which increases the volume or rapidity of inspired air which brings on a paroxysm of cough.

* Amelioration : From warmth, keeping the mouth covered to exclude cold air; COVERING
THE BODY WARMLY.

Concomitants; While COUGHING THERE is involuntary urination (Causticum, Arg. nit., Nat. mur.).
Hoarseness :

Hoarseness with uncertain voice, with raw sensation in larynx and trachea. There is tickling sensation
in throat-pit.
