398 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Modalities; Toothache is aggravated at night, from eatinc, drinking, especially cold things and
relieved by heat (relieved by cold-Bryonia, Puls., Coffea),

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :
Colic : For abdominal colic, Mag. phos. is an excellent remedy.

Location: Pain at the pit of stomach or anywhere in the abdomen.
Sensation: Bloated; full sensation in stomach.

Character of pain: Sharp, cutting, stabbing, shooting, stitching type of pain, coming and going
like a lightning.

Cramping pain, there is intermittent type of pain, comes in paroxysm, unbearable, rapidly changing
place. Pain compels the patient to bend double. Great distension of abdomen. The patient wants to
loosen clothing, walks about and constantly passes flatus which gives no relief. The tongue is clean.

Modalities:
* Aggravation from touch.
* Amelioration; By rubbing, warmth and pressure.

Here it differs from Colocynth. Both have got severe colic making the patient to bend double; both
are relieved by warmth and hard pressure. But the colic is not so markedly relieved by heat in Colocynth
as in. Mag. phos. but is relieved by pressure. Mag. phos. has right sided colic, buj Colocynth usually left
sided. Anger with indignation is the causative factor in Colocynth, but not in Mag. phos. In Mag, phos..
the colic is not so markedly relieved by pressure, bdt is relieved by heat. MAG. PHOS. SHOULD BE
USED WHEN COLOCYNTH FAILS TO RELIEVE.

Menses :
In membranous dysmenorrhoea, Mag. phos,. is of great help.
Time: Too early.
Character of flow: Flow dark and stringy (Crocus, Ust.).

Character of pain: Severe pain in the abdomen, especially right sided. The pain is sharp, cutting,
stabbing, shooting, stitching, coming and going like a lightning, unbearable pain, driving the patient to
frenzy, rapidly changing place and cramping pain.

* Aggravation: Pain is aggravated before the flow begins.

¢ Amelioration: When the flow begins (Lach,, Zincum met.) by lying on right side and by heat
and bending double.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: from cold air, draught of cold alr or cold wind, cold bathing or washing, motion and
touch.

Amelioration: By bending double, heat, warmth and pressure.

Relations :

Antidoted by: Belladonna, Gels, Lachesis.
Compare: Colocynth, Cham.
