Kali_ Muriaticum - 677

there may be lack of appetite. With Nat Mur it is utilised in the production of
hydrochloric acid, and is thus an essential link in the process of digestion. This tissue
salt is useful as a first aid for the treatment of burns.

Kali Mur & Ferrum Phos the top two tissue salts for colds. Kali Mur for the runny
nose. Sinusitis, the mucous looks like uncooked or slightly soft-boiled egg white, mucous
clear to white but not sticky. Mucous can get thick white later on.

CHARACTERISTIC INDICATIONS
1. Kali mur. corresponds to the second stage of inflammation of serous membrane
when the exudation is of a plastic or fibrinnous character.
2. Whiteness : The great keynote of Kali-m. is, whiteness.

Whiteness of secretions, exudations, eruptions of tissues The principal general
characteristic symptoms are a white or grey coating at the base of the tongue, white
or grey exudations, glandular swellings, discharges or expectoration of a thick,
white fibrinous slime or phlegm from any mucous surface, or flour-like scaling of the
skin.

8. The next is, toughness. Fibrinous exudations and discharges

4. The symptoms are worse by motion, and worse by any fatty or rich food or pastry.
Worse by warmth of bed

5. All stomach and bowel symptoms are worse after eating fats, pastry or any rich
food. Pains are increased and aggravated by motion.

CLINICAL USE
It is useful for the following diseases/ailments when the general conditions of Kali
mur. as noted above are present
* Throat, sinus and upper respiratory system with white discharges
* Chronic catarrhal condition of middle ear. Ear infections with too much fluid,
pressure in the ear. Use after an ear infection, for people who can’t hear well after

an ear infection — hearing, deafness
® Blocked eustachian tubes — relieves ear pressure when flying
* Snapping and noises in the ear
* White blisters, shingles
* Burns
* Cysts with white discharge
« Rheumatism
* Allergies — clear white discharges and white flakey skin
¢ Swimmer’s ear. (Merc dulcis), then Kali Mur

* A preventive for people flying in a plane to prevent the ear drums from clogging up
and sensitivity to pressure. The feeling that the ears won’t pop.

* Vaginitis — white thick or clear — like eggwhite, milky discharge
e White flaky dandruff
