184 Text Book of MATERIA MEDIC,

PARTICULARS

Stomach :

Simplest food disagrees due to weak digestion with excessive accumulation of gas in the stomach
and intestine particularly in the epigastric region with frequent eructation and passing of flatus.

Causation: Alcohol, wine, spoiled meat, fish, fat, salt and salted meat.
Sensation: As if the abdomen will burst open due to accumulation of excessive gas.

Location: Especially in the upper part of the abdomen (stomach and transverse colon). (Lower
abdomen-lyco, whole abdomen-china).

Modalities:
* Aggravation: By lying down, after eating and drinking, rich food, butter, milk, coffee, etc.
¢ Amelioration: From eructation and passing flatus.
Concomitants: Diarrhoea and cadaverous smelling stool with burning in the rectum.
It is suited to painful diarrhoea of old people.

Character of stool: Frequent, involuntary, cadaverous smelling stool followed by burning in rectum.
Soft stool voided with difficulty.

Cholera :

Carbo veg. is very useful in the COLLAPSE STAGE of cholera.

Causation: Caused by great drain of the vitality due to profuseness of its discharges.
Character of stool: There is frequent, involuntary cadaverous smelling stool, followel by
burning.

Look of the face: Hippocratic face eyes are sunken, cheeks are sunken with earthy complexion.

Look of the skin: There is deficient capillary circulation causing blueness of skin and cokiness of
extremities, vital power nearly exhausted.

Sweats: There is COLD SWEAT ON the forehead with coldness of entire body.

Relation with fan: There is GREAT DESIRE TO BE CONSTANTLY FANNED RAPIDLY AND
FROM A CLOSE DISTANCE.

If Carbo veg. is given in last stage with copious cold sweat, cold breath, cold tongue, voice
lost, this remedy may save a LIFE.

Respiratory Symptoms :
Causation: Low vitality and neglected pneumonia (China, Plumbum and Lyco.).

Character of Cough: Cough with tingling and itching in larynx causing spasmodic cough with
gagging and vomiting. Hoarseness worse- in the evening; aphonia more in the morning with rawness,
soreness and burning, wheezing and rattling of mucus in the chest

Modality: Worse in the evening, open air, after eating and talking Relieved by CONSTANT
FANNING FROM A CLOSE DISTANCE.

