radium Bromatum 513

8) Burning—entire body feels as if a fire with needle pricks or electric shock—like pain
during sleep.

9) Great weakness, letharginess, tiredness feeling, prostra-tion, debility run through
mental as well as physical plane.

10) Aggravation at night and from warmth of bed and amelio-ration in open air and by
continued motion in general.

11) Aversion to sweet, ice cream, meat, distaste for tobacco.

12) A peculiar metallic taste in mouth with increased saliva-tion (Merc.)

13) Vertigo with tendency to fall to left & occipital headache, when rising, better after
sleep, warm bath, lying down and in open air.

14) Succession of small boils on forehead and chest.

15) Lateness in the onset of symptoms.

16) Nephritis with rheumatic symptoms.

17) Mentals: It has a very few but most striking mental symptoms. The patient is

apprehensive, depressed, irrit-able, cross and easily vexed. He has fear of being
alone in the dark and wants to have some one near.

Dreams of passing urine; of fire & of committing suicide. The dreams are vivid and
it takes some long time for the patients to realise that visions are not true.

PARTICULARS

Gastrointestinal Systems

Stomach : There is warm, empty feeling in stomach better after eating. Nausea & sinking sensation
at pit of stomach. Loss of appetite. Aversion to sweet, meat & ice cream.

Abdomen : The abdomen is distended with much foul flatulency. Pain over Me Burney's point and

at location of sigmoid flexure is peculiar symptom of this medicine. It has many alternating symptoms
such as indigestion alternates with earache and pain in chest. Alternating constipation and diarrhoea.
Yellow soft stools alternate with hard brown stools.

Urinary System : Has to waif some minutes before urine comes : dvsuria during day, urine contains
brickdust sediment, albumin and granular casts. There is slight burning in urine. Nephritis with rheumatic
symptoms.

Rheumatism :
Causation : Bad effects of X-Ray or radium therapy.
Location ; Almost all joints of the body are affected.

Sensation : Aching and tired feeling, legs, arms and neck feel hard and brittle as though they would
break on moving.

Character of pair-—Severe aching pain all over the body especially in knee and ankles. Sharp
electirc shock or lightning like pain in joints. There {s also aching pain and lamenes in back of neck,
between shoulders and in lumbo-sacral region. Pain in cervical vertebrae worse bending head forward and
better standing or sitting erect. Nephritis with rheumatism,
