Ammonium Muriaticum ea

9) Piles especially after suppressed leucorrhoea; burning and stinging in the rectum for
hours after stool.

10) Offensive sweat of the feet.

11) Mind—She is melancholic, morose, ill-humoured with irritability and disposition to
be angry. She has antipathy to certain persons which is very peculiar to herself.
Full of grief with desire to cry but cann’t.

12) Ailments from—Suppressed leucorrhoea.
PARTICULARS :

Respiratory symptoms

Nose : Thin watery acrid and hot discharge corroding the inside of the nose and upper lip.
There is loss of smell with obstructed, stuffy feeling and desire to blow it out,

Cough : Cough is dry, hacking but loose in afternoon with profuse expectoration & rattling of
mucus. There may be hoarseness and burning in larynx.

Modality: Aggravation : by lying on back or right side.

Concomitant—Cough with profuse .salivation and liver symptoms even other symptoms if
accompanied by cough.

Rectal symptoms :

Constipation : Like other muriates, Ammon Mur. patient is usually constipated. There is crumbling
from the verge of anus. Hard crumbling stools require great effort in expulsion. Stools vary in colour, no
two stools alike (Puls.) and covered with glairy mucus.

Haemorhoids : It can be thought of in piles especially after suppressed leucorrhoea. Haemorthoids
sore and smarting. There is burning and stinging in the rectum during and for hours after stool (Aesc..
Sulph.)

Female genital Organs :

Menses : Time ; Too early.

Quantity—Too profuse.

Character of flow -: Blood is black & clotted. Flow more at night.

Concomitant: During menses haemorrhage from the bowels or rectum with cholera like symptoms
(Ammon Garb., Bov., Ver. Alb.) There is also pain in abdomen and small of back during menses.

Leucorrhoea : Leucorrhoea is like white of an egg, preceded by griping pain about the navel. There
is also painless discharge of brown, slimy, mucus especially after every urina-tion,

General Modalities : Aggravation : Morning, (Head & Chest Symptoms), afternoon (abdominal
symptoms) Amelioration : Open air. Relations ; Followed by Ant. C., Phos., Puls., Sanic.

Antidotes : Coffea, Nux., Caust.
