16 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Concomitants ; There is. intense nervous restless.ness, fear, anxiety and anguish. The patient tosses
about in agony. He thinks the attack is fatal and he is going to die.

Collapse :

Causation : Just as in dysentery, cholera may also set in due to fear, fright, shock, heat of sun, or
any excitement.

Mode of onset : The onset is sudden and violent.

Character : There is severe vomiting and purging of profuse quantity. Gripping and cutting pain in
abdomen. Frequent desire for stool and vomiting.

Modalities :
* Aggravation : Towards evening and at night.
* Amelioration : In open air.

Concomitants : There is severe Precordial pain, intense nervous restlessness, fear, anxiety and
anguish. The patient tosses about in agony. He thinks the attack is fatal and he is going to die soon.

Convulsion :
Generally teething children may get the attack of convulsion which will be relieved by Aconite.

Character of convulsion: There is jerking and twitching of single muscle (Agaricus, Zincum met.).
The child gnaws its fist, bites, frets and screams. The skin may be very hot and'dry, with high fever and
dilated pupils.

Menses:

There may be amenorrhoea or suppression of menses in young plethoric girls usually after fright,
fear or exposure to cold, etc.

Fever :

Aconite is a great fever remedy.

Causation ; Exposure to dry cold air, dry North or West wind or exposure to draught of cold air,
while in perspiration, bad effects of checked perspiration, fear, fright, shock, heat of sun and excitement.

Mode of onset ; Starts very suddenly and violently.

Symptoms of fever : There is sudden and violent attack of fever with high rise of temperature.
Severe chill in the beginning, violent and more chill in the evening and at night. Very chilly if uncovered.
but with internal heat. The acute fever is generally of short and sharp attack.

There is no periodicity whatsoever. The most violent attack of fever, requiring Aconite will subside in
a night, no other drug is needed. Aconite should never be given simply to control the fever, never be
alternated with other drug for that purpose.

Face during fever : Face is red or pale and red alternately, Anxious and frightened expression.
Sensation of face growing or swelling, On rising the red face becomes deathly pale and he feels dizzy.

Skin during fever : Skin is dry and hot with burning sensation. Skin is red, shining, not with violent
pain.

Sweat in fever : There is drenching sweat, especially on parts laid on, which relieves (Boericke)
(Natrum mur., Psorinum).
