Natrum Muriaticum 437

Temperament: Nervous type of people who are very much akward and hasty and drop
things from hand (Apis, Bovista).

Relation with heat and cold: Hot patient, yet there is great liability to take cold

(Kent).

Miasm: It covers all the three miasms viz., Psora, Syphilis, and Sycosis.
Diathesis: Scrofulous diathesis.

1,

Great emaciation, losing flesh while living well. (Abrot., lod.).

2. Most of the symptoms are worse from sunrise to sunset, especially from 10 to 11

>

on

9.
10.
11,
12.
13.

a.m., but are relieved by perspiration (Psorinum—rev. of Merc. sol., Ver. alb.).

. Left sided headache, especially of school girls, which is relieved by perspiration.

Mapped tongue with red insular patches, like ring worms on sides (Ars.,Lach.,
Merc. sol., Nit. acid).

. Involuntary urination when walking, coughing, laughing (Causticum, Puls., Arg-

nit.).
Cannot pass urine in presence of others (Hepar, Mur. ac.)
. Consolation aggravates her troubles (Hell., Sepia, Lil tig rev of Pulsatilla).

. Intense pti oe salt, bitter things, fish and milk, aversion to bread, coffee,
tobacco, sie

Fluttering ig of the it the heart’s pulsation shakes the whole body.
Hairs fall out when touched, in nursing women.

Hangnails; skin; around the nails are dry and cracked.

Eczema especialy in edges of hair.

Mind : The mental condition is characterised by EXCESSIVE IRRITABILITY. They
cry for slightest cause and get into a passion about trifles.

The Nat. mur. patient is greatly disturbed by excitement is extremely emotional.
The whole nervous economy is in a state of fret and irritation.

Again there is a HYSTERICAL CONDITION of mind, weeping alternates with
laughing, irresistible laughing at unsuitable times weeping, mood without any
cause but CONSOLATION AGGRAVATES THE STATE OF MIND.

The lachrymal disposition and hypochondriacal mood are the two striking
features of this remedy. Year) wae’

The patiet is very awkward and hasty, drops things from hand

Dreams of robbers at night and on waking will not believe to the contrary until and
unless a thorough search is made of the house.

All the mental symptoms are due to the bad effects of anger, grief, vexation,
excessive use of salt, bread, quinine, fright, loss of vital fluids, sexual excess,
profuse menses, etc. Mentally Nat.mur. is the chronic of Ignatia.

a

