tycopodium Clavatum 385

appearing in public, often in professional man like lawyers and ministers who have
to appear in public, there is a feeling of complete incompetence and inability to
undertake the task, although he has been accustomed to it for many years. A laywer
cannot think of appearing in court; he delays, until he is obliged to appear because
he has a fear that he will stumble, that he will make mistakes, that he will forget
and yet when he undertakes, he goes through with ease, competency and comfort.

Furthermore the patient wants to be alone; yet has drend of solitude. The patient
dreads the presence of new persons, or visitors. She wants to be only with those who
are constantly surrounding her, but also does not want to be entirely alone; wants
to feel that there is somebody else in the house, but does not want company, does
not want to be talked to or forced to do anything. Desire to be alone. Wants to keep
silent; yet very glad to feel that-there is somebody else in the house. The patient
prefers to remain in a room by herself but wants to have somebody in the adjacent
room.

Great anticipation: Lack of confidence, weakness of memory; confused thoughts;
loss of confidence in himself.

Easily angered; cannot endure opposition or contradiction Seeks dispute.

Greedy and miserly, malicious, avaricious and pusillanimous; very much sensitive;
even cries when thanked.

FOR PERSONS INTELLECTUALLY KEEN, BUT PHYSICALLY WEAK, it is very
useful.

19. Ailments from : Fright, anger, mortificaion or vexation with reserved displeasure
(Staph.).

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache arising from or associated with; gastric troubles; headache if the patient does
not eat.

Time: Periodic headache.
Location: Right sided headache; starts in the right side and goes to the left.
Sensation: Pressing sensation as if the head would burst.

Character of headache: Congestive tuype of headache; the headache is of throbbing and pressing
type.

Modalities: Worse from 4 TO 8 P.M. right-sided, from heat or warm. room. Amelioration from
uncovering the head and by eating.

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :

Mouth : Dryness of mouth and tongue without thrist. Tongue dry black, cracked, trembling; sour
taste in the mouth.

Liver : In hepatic diseases such as jaundice, infective hepatitis, etc. the right hypochondrium is
swollen, The liver is very much sensitive; pain shooting across lower abdomen, from right to left. Aching

and drawing type of pain in the region,
