Mezereum 419

Skin :
Mezereum is an excellent remedy for skin affections, irrespective of whether it is:-
(a) Eczema and itching eruptions after vaccination, or
(b) Herpes Zoster, or
(c) Ulcers of various kinds.
Provided the following characteristic symptoms are found.

Eczema and itching eruptions after vaccination, with intolerable itching followed by copious serous
exudations oozing out; aggravated in bed and from touch.

The favourite site for many of the eruptions is the scalp.

The head is covered with thick leather-like crust, under which thick and white pus collects here
and there: hair is glued and matted together: pus after a time is ichorous beomes offensive and breeds
vermin.

Ulcers with thick yellowish scabs in which thick yellow pus collects.

Vesicles appear around the ulcers which itch violently and burn like fire. The vesicles have fiery red
areola around them.

Linen or charpie sticks to the ulcers. They bleed when it is torn away.
Zona followed by neuralgic burning pain.
A general unhealthiness of the skin is found all over the body. The skin gets wrinkled and in folds.

There is intense itching. Feels that thousands of small insects were creeping all over the body.
innumerable reddish elevations appear on the parts scratched.

Liver spots on chest and arms become dark and desquamated.
Modalities:

* Aggravation: At night, in bed and from touch, from cold, damp and cold winds.
* Amelioration: In the open air..
Extremities :
Are affected by inflammatory rheumatism.
Causation: After abuse of mercury, after venereal diseases.
Location: Bones especially long bones are inflamed and swollen

Character of pain: There is severe bursting, tearing type of pain in periosteum. Pain goes from
above downwards.

Pains are aggravated, at night, in bed, least touch, motion and in damp weather. Pains are better in
Open air,
General Modalities :
Aggravation: At night, from cold, cold washing, touch or motion, bad effects of mercury.
Amelioration: |n the open air.
Relations :
Compare: Causticum, Phytolacca, Rhus tox.
Mezereurn and Mercury antidote each other.
