66 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Respiratory System :

Antim. tart, is a wonderful medicine for many diseases of respiratory tract, whether it is pneumonia,
bronchitis, asthma, etc., it matters little, if the following symptoms are present.

Causation: Exposure to damp basement and cellars. Bad effects of vaccination.

Character of troubles: Difficult suffocation in the evening and at am .compelling the patient to sit

up due to aggravation of cough with less or no expectoration of mucus. LOUD RATTLING DUE To
LARGE ACCUMULATION OF MUCUS IN BRONCHI which can be heard across the entire room. In

the last stage of pneumonia when the resolution takes place much more rapidly than absorption and
expectoration, so that lungs are fitted with mucus and pus, this remedy will relieve. There will be marked
dyspnoea and the patient gets anguished with the cough.

Concomitants; Rapid, weak and trembling pulse. The face becomes hippocratic and covered with
beads of cold sweat. The patient has irresistible desire to sleep. There maybe fan like motion of

alaenasi. Face becomes cyanptic, blue and pale. Tongue is coated, pasty, thick with reddened papillae and
red edges, red streaks, very red, dry in the middle with extraordinary craving for apples.

Asphyxia Neonatorum :

Antim. tart, is an excellent remedy for asphyxia neonatorum. It is most useful where there is much

rattling in the chest and cyarlosis. Mechanical asphyxia due to foreign body in the larynx leading to
dyspnoea. Child at birth is pale, breathless or gasping although the cord still pulsates. (Compare with
Carbo. veg., Moschus).

Cardio-vascular system :

There may be complete cyanosis-all over—due to accumulation of deoxygenated blood as a result of
congestion of lungs with mucus. In addition, there may be great precordial pain and anxiety attended with
vomiting of mucus and bile in any position, execpt when lying on right side.

Skin :

Smallpox or pox-like eruptions after pustules, forming painful crusts with itching on genitals, scrotum,
anus and back, witn; cyanotic condition of the face. Reddish itching rash all over the body. In case of
vesicular eruptions failing to appear and convulsion setting in, a dose of this remedy will bring out the

eruptions

General modalities :

Aggravation: In damp, cold weather; lying down at night; warmth of room, change of weather in
spring.

Amelioration: Cold open air, sitting upright, expectoration, lying on right side.
Relations :

Antidoted by China, Ipecac., Sepia, Hepar sulph.

Similar to: Aconite in croup. Aresenic in asthma.

Lyco. Camphor, lodum and Hepar in pneumonia,

Ver. alb, in nausea, vomiting and cold sweat.
Follows Well: Ipecac., Aresenic, Puls., Sepia and Sulphur. Antim. tart, follows Baryta carb.
