Danial

Chamomilla 203

Aagravation form heat, evening before mid-night, in open air and in the wind.

Relief in wet weather. (Toothache is aggravated from heat in the case of Bryonia and Pulsatilla but
these are relieved by cold),
Convulsion :

Caused BY ANGER, from downward motion. Convulsion of a child from nursing after a fit of anger
in mother. Aggravation by anger, from downward motion and relief from being carried.
Labour pain :

Unbearable pain, drives the patient to despair with numbness of the affected part; spasmodic,
distressing pain, wants to get away from them, tearing pain down the legs and pressing upwards.

Rheumatic pain :

There is violent rheumatic pain driving the patient out of bed at night, compels the patient to walk
about, oversensitive to pain. Pain with numbness of the joints. Aggravation from heat and relief in warm
wet weather.

Breast :

Nipples are inflamed and are tender to touch. Milk runs out in nursing women. Infant's breasts are
tender to touch.

For burning of the sole at night, which the patient puts out of bed, Chamomilla is a good rerpedy.
Such burning of soles and feet is more at night. (Puls., Sulph., Medo.).

Chamomilla Baby :

Chamomilla is especially suited to those children who are newly born and DURING dentition. The
baby is very hot and highly psoric; has very IRRITABLE TEMPERAMENT, uncivilised, becomes QUIET
ONLY WHEN CARRIED. Mentally the baby is very much irritable, fretful, peevish and snappish, cross,
spiteful, uncivil; cannot return a civil answer. A Chamomilla child can be spotted amongst hundreds by
his peculiar mentality.

The baby is very much impatient; wants many things, but when offered rejects all of them. Whining
restlessness. Piteous moaning of children all the time because the baby cannot have what he wants. All
the mental symptoms are RELIEVED BY CARRYING. Child cannot bear anyone near him and cannot
bear to be spoken to also.

Such children may also suffer from convulsion, or fever, or diarrhoea, usually caused BY ANGER.
The diarrhoea DURING DENTITION is greenish, hot, very offensive like rotten eggs.

Note: Menta! calmness contra-indicates Chamomilla (Mental calmness indicates Pulsatilla).

General Modalities :

Aggravation: By heat, anger, evening, before mid-night, in the open air, in the wind and by
eructation.

Amelioration: From being carried, fasting, warm wet weather.

Relation :
It Antidotes: Coffee and narcotics such as Opium.
Antidoted by: Aco, Nux, Puls.
