Ambra Gris@a 45

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1) Great bashfulness is very characteristic of Ambra Grisea.

2) The presence of others is unbearable during stool, when urinating even can’t
do any thing in pressence of others.

3) After business embarrassments, unable to sleep, must get up (Act., Sep.)
4) Sensation of coldness in abdomen (Cal.)

5) Discharge of blood between periods, at every little accident—a long walk, after
every hard stool etc.

6) Leucorrhoea : Thick, bluish-white mucus especially or only at night (Caust, Merc.,
Nit Ac.)

7) Cough in spasmodic paroxysms, with eructation and hoarseness. Ranula with foetid
breath.

8) One sided complaints.

9) Mind : The red strand of this remedy is found in its bash fulness, embarassment
and nervousness. The patient is excitable, nervous and hysterical. He is intensely
shy blushes easily. He can’t do any thing in presence of others. The presence of
others even the nurse, is unbearable during stool, when urinating. There is great
sadness, patient sits for days weeping. Music is intolerable, causes weeping.
Dread of people and desires to be alone. Restless, excited, despair and very
loquacious. Time passes too slowly. Fears of becoming insane. The presence of other
people and music aggravate the symptoms. Ambra is a good remedy for
sleeplessness due to nervousness and business embarrassment.

PARTICULARS

Gastrointestinal Symptoms :

Stomach ; Eructations with violent convulsive cough. Distension of stomach after midnight.
Heart burn from drinking milk, Thirstlessness.

Abdomen : Flatulence, distended abdomen after midnight. Sensation of coldness in abdomen.

Constipation : There is frequent ineffectual desire for stool which makes the patient anxious. The
presence of others even the nurse is unbearable during stool. Inveterate constipation in old people.

Modality: Aggravation—After eating, warm drink especially warm milk after midnight, in the
morning.

Respiratory Symptoms :
Cough : Violent nervous cough in spasmodic paroxsysms with eructations and hoarseness.

Hollow, spasmodic barking cough coming from deep in chest. Whooping cough without .crowing
inspiration, morning with, evening without expectoration.

Modality : Agg.—Talking, reading aloud, in presence of people, Music.
