xt Book of MATERIA MED}
714 Te CA

i

Dumb ague (Gels) Subacute Malaria fever with irregular attack in which usually chill stage
is absent.

. to ; .
Dyscrasia (Sulph. A.) A morbid general state resulting from the en ae xic ra fa
the blood; an old-term to indicate an abnormal depraved con , especial

humors.

Earthy Complexion (Berb. v.) : Muddy complexion.
Easy disposition (Sep.) Free from anxiety.

Ecchymosis (Led, Sec. c., Sul. A.) A purplish patch caused by extravasation of blood into the
skin.

Eclampsia (Meli) An attack of convulsions, the word is now almost entirely confined to that
associated with pregnancy.

Ecstasy (Lack.) A state of being extreme delight.

Ecstatic love (Ant. c.) Exalted state of feeling about love affairs.

Eczema Solaris (Mur. A.) An eczematous eruption originating from sunburn.
Effulvia, Noxious (Crot. H.) See Noxious effulvia.

Embrace (Nat. C.) Sexual intercourse.

Emigrant (Plat.) Who goes from one’s own country to another to settle there.
Emission (Canth, Dig, Dios, Merc, Phos. A.): An involuntary ejaculation of semen.

Emphysema (Amman C.) Dilatation of the pulmonary air vesicles, usually through atrophy
of the septa between the alveoli.

Enema (Lac. D.) The injection of a liquid into the rectum, to be returned or retained.

Enervated by indolence and luxury (Helon) Weakened by indolence and luxury.
Enfeebled (Helon.) Weakened.

Engraving (Ruta) Inscribing ornaments etc.

Entreating (Stram.) Earnestly requesting.

Enuresis (Sec. C., Sep.) Involuntary passage of urine, usually occurring at night or during
sleep.

Enuresis diurna et nocturna (Equiset,) Involuntary passage of urine

; . day and night.
Epilepsy (Cale. Ars, Cic. v. Kali Br.,) Result from disordered electrica

i | activity of brain. The
‘fit’ is caused by an abnormal electrical discha j y

re rge that rbs ; tal
activity) and usually results in loss of consciousness, snes cerebration (men

Erethitic Chlorosis (Fer. M.) Anaemia with flushing,
Erratic (Lac, c,.) Irregular or uneven in movement,

Erysipelas (Anth, Calend, Rhus, Ruta

) An acute, specific infectious di : :
: : , : , us disease, hich there
is a spreading streptococcal inflammation of the skin and smabeubaukeien tics cs

quality or behaviour,
