Lycopodium Clavatum . 387

Concomitants: With the above symptoms, there may be severe backache which is relieved after
urination (Medo.).
Modality:

* Aggravation: FROM 4-8P.M. before urination,
* Amelioration: Kidney pain (backache) is relieved after urination (Medo.)

Sexual Symptoms :
(a) Male : Impotency of young men; from onanism or sexual excess. Penis is small, relaxed and
cold, Old men with strong desire, but imperfect erection. Patient falls asleep during an
embrace, with premature emission. There may also be enlarged prostatetn old people.

b) Female : Dryness of vagina with burning during and after coition which is very painful.
Discharge of blood from vagina after every stool.

Physometra: Escape of flatus from the vagina (Lac can., Nux mos., Sanguinaria, Brom.).
Foetus appears to be turning somersaults.
Baby :
Look of the baby: Old looking baby; weak and emaciated with well developed head, but puny,
sick-body, upper part of the body is emaciated and lower part semi-dropsical.
Mind :
Mentally the baby is very much irritable, peevish, cross on waking, ugly, kicks off and screams. Baby
cries all day and sleeps all night (rev. of Psorinum, Lac can.).

Snuffles of children. Nose stops at night; must breathe through the mouth. Child starts rubbing its
nose during sleep.
Hunger: There is CANINE HUNGER, but a few mouthful fills upto the throat with distended

Urine: Child cries before urinating. There is RED SAND IN URINE on child's diaper.
Desire: The baby has intense craving for sweet.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: Nearly all complaints are AGGRAVATED FROM 4-8 P.M. (Hell. 4-9 p.m., Colocynth,
Mag. phos.), right side, from heat, warm air, EXCEPT THROAT AND STOMACH.

Amelioration: From warm food and drink (only stomach and throat symptoms); from uncovering the
head and loosening the garments, in open air.
Relations :

Complementary to: \odium.

Follows well: After Calcarea, Carbo veg., Lachesis, Sulphur.

It is rarely advisable to begin the treatment of a chronic disease with Lyco., unless clearly indicated.

It is better to give another anti-psoric first.

Lycopodium is a deep seated, long acting remedy.

Should rarely be repeated after improvement begins.

N.B. : A dose of Carbo. Veg., evey 8th day facilitates action In Lyco.

Antidoted by: Camphor, Caust., Cham., Coffea., Graph., Nux v., Puls.

It Antidotes: Merc.
