544 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

1. There is profuse sweat all over the body DURING WAKING HOURS. When the
patient sleeps or closes the eyes, the sweat disappears (rev. of China, Conium,
Thuja. Cactus).

2. The patient has oedematous swelling in various parts of the body, especially in leg,
in step and feet.

3. Dry coryza of infants : Nose dry and completely stopped-up, preventing breathing
when nursing.

4. There is severe suffocative attack of dyspnoea after mid-night. The patient wakes
up suddenly, sits up in bed, and gasps for breath. The patient becomes cyanosed
and turns blue, with livid face. The CHILD CAN INSPIRE WELL BUT CANNOT
EXPIRE (Med.).

5. Dry coryza precedes the fever paroxysms.

6. Fever without thirst and the patient dredads uncovering.

7, Aggravation: From sleep and from cold drinks.
Amelioration: By pressure.

8. Ailments from : Violent mental emotions, anxiety, grief and excessive sexual
indulgence.

PARTICULARS

Respiratory organs :

Sambucus affects especially the mucous membrane of the respiratory organs and following are its
cardinal symptoms.

The remedy is indicated in catarrhal affections of the air passages with suffocative attack.

There is DRY CORYZA. The nose is completely dry and stopped up. Breathing through the nose is
most difficult, if not impossible, especially while nursing.

The suffocative attack comes particularly after mid-night and the patient is compelled to wake up
suddenly and sit up in bed panting for breath; but unable to breathe; turns blue and cyanosed; face
becomes livid. The attack passes off after sometime, but again returns after a short while.

The patient can INSPIRE WELL, BUT CANNOT EXPIRE, regular inhalation but sighing expiration.
The patient sleeps into attack.

The attack of suffocation is in the last stage of croup. Hoarseness with much tenacious mucus in

larynx.

The couigh is very much suffocative; hollow, deep coughing, with spasm of the chest. There is much
mucus in the bronchi; expectoration is very difficult.

Cough is deep and dry, precedes the fever paroxysms. There Is profuse debilitating sweat over the
entire body during waking hours;; disappears as soon as the patient sleeps.

Fever :

During fever, there is dry heat while the patient sleeps or on falling asleep. The patient dreads
uncovering wants to cover up completely.
