sanguinaria Canadensis 547
——

4. There is burning sensation as if caused by hot water, especially in the soles and
palms during climacteric period (Sulph., Medo., Puls., Cham.).

5. Periodic sick headache, sun headache, begins in the morning, increases during the
day, lasts until evening and relieved by sleep. Headache begins in the occiput,
ascends to vertex and finally settles over the right eye (Sil., Left eye, Spig.).
Headache of climacteric, returns every seventh day.

6. Rheumatism of the right arm and shoulder (Left-Fer. met., Nux mosch.).
7. Breath and sputa are very offensive, even the patient himself feels the bad smell.

8. Dry hacking cough, waking the patient up at night and not ceasing until he sits up
in bed and passes flatus, with CIRCUMSCRIBED RED CHEEKS and night sweat.
Sudden stoppage of cough brings on diarrhoea.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Location: Right sided headache. Headache begins in the occiput, spreads upwards and settles over
the right eye (Sil.—Left orbit, Spig.).

Sensation : As if head would burst or as if eyes would be pressed out.

Character of headache: Periodic sick headache, returns at the climacteric, every seventh day:
sun headache.

Throbbing, pulsating and congestive headache.
Modalities:
* Aggravation: Begins in the morning, increases during the day, lasts until evening.
¢ Amelioration: By sleep and by perfectly lying quiet in a dark room.
Concomitants: Neuralgia of face; pain extends to all directions from the upper jaw; relieved by
kneeling down and pressing the head firmly against the floor.*~
Respiratory Symptoms :
Nose : Catarrhal affection of the nose. Nose filled up with mucus and blocked up. From nose. there
is a profuse, thick, yellowish discharge coming out. Nasal polyp (Psor., Allium cepa, Teuc. mv}
Cough :
Causation: From taking cold, from draught of cold air, change of weather, after whooping cough.
Location: Right side of the chest is affected most.
Sensation: Burning and sorness in chest.
Character of cough: Spasmodic cough with gagging and vomiting.

Cough of gastric origin; every cough ends in belching. Severe pain in the larynx and trachea
When talking. Severe cough, especially at night, making the patient get up and not ceasing until he sits up
in bed and passes flatus.

With cough there is thick, yellowish, offensive sputa being coughed out.
