88 ‘ext Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Modalities: Headache is aggravated by light, motion, commences from 1-3 p.m., goes upto mid-
night. Relieved by cold application, in dark room, lying with head on pillow.

Concomitants: Nausea and vomiting; always chilly except in the head, during intermittent fever, head
symptoms alternate with physical symptoms.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

Mouth : Unhealthy mouth with easily bleeding gums and offensive breath. Sore lips and ulcers in
the mouth and eruption on the lips. Aphthae in mouth with foetid and bloody saliva.

Tongue : Blackish, brown, dry, coated white, black or brown with red streak in the middle, with req
papillae. Dryness of the mouth, violent thirst yet drinks little at a time but quite often.

Throat : Throat is ulcerated, swollen and oedematous. Dryness with soreness, scraping and burning,
Swallowing is very difficult and painful.

Stomach :

* Causation: Taking ice-cream, cold fruits, decayed food or animal matter, sour beer, bad
sausage, strong cheese, ptomaine poisoning, etc.

* Character: Food has no taste. Cannot bear the smell or sight of food (Colchicum, Sepia,
Stannum), There is burning pain with intense heat in the pit of stomach and pressure in stomach,
especially after eating. Great anxiety about the stomach, becomes restless and-rolls-about. Nausea and
vorniting of entire food and water as soon as it touches the stomach due to inflammation and irrit-ation of
the mucous membranes—from Slightest irritation to the most destructive gastritis, gastro-enteritis with
burning pain in the stomach and dry mouthy. Vomiting as soon as anything is taken; vomiting of both
food and water (food is retained in Bismuth). Vomiting black bile and blood. The vomitus is dark,
offensive, scanty and putrid. Vomiting with diarrhoea followed by great prostration. Spasmodic colic with
sensation as if the intestines become twisted with burning in abdomen. The patient is restless with fear of
death; troubles are more during mid-day and midnight. Loathing of food in general.

Cholera :

* Causation: During cholera time, taking ice-cream, cold frutis, decayed food, sour beer, bad
Sausage, ptomaine poisoning, etc.

* Character of stool: Dark or black, watery, very offensive rice-watery stool with intense
vomiting and profound debility. Corrosive stool, cutting pain in bowels with tenesmus, Burning in anus

and rectum during and after stool. Small, offensive and dark stool with sudden and rapid prostration.
worse at night, especially at mid-Might, from 12-2 a.m.

Diarrhoea : After eating or drinking. Stool is yellowish, black, offensive, watery and bloody. Very
offensive, having cadaverous odour, pain and corrosiveness, followed by great prostration. During
diarrhoea, the patient is very much ANGUISHED, RESTLESS AND HAS FEAR OF DEATH.

Haemorrhoids : With stitching pain, when walking or sitting, but not at stool, preventing sitting or
sleeping. Burning pain relieved by heat.

Respiratory system :
Asthma : Asthma comes on or aggravated by suppressed eruptions, cold things and cold food.
The patient is very much worried about himself with anguish.

He is unable to lie down for fear of suffocation; must sit or bend forward and abduct arms for relief
(Lie down and abduct arms—Psorinum).

Wheezing respiration with cough and frothy expectoration. There \s darting pain through upper |/
3rd of right lung which is worse after cold drink or cold food The sputum is scanty and frothy,

|

rr
