piatina 489
PARTICULARS
Headache :

Causation: From anger, chargin, uterine diseases, fright, vexation, sexual excess, masturbation, etc.
Location: Headache may be in the temple, in the top of the head or in the forehead.
Sensation: Sensation of numbness in head.

Character of pain: Pain comes gradually and goes gradually (Stannum, Syphilinum), attended
with numbness of parts, (Cham., Acon.). There is pressing pain in the head. Tension in the scalp. There
is cramp-like constriction of the scalp. Also there is squeezing sensation in the head.

Modalities: Aggravation: in the evening, inside a room, and ameliortion from motion and in open
air.

Menses :

This remedy is ideally suited in the case of METRORRHAGIA AND MENORRHAGIA Time: Too
early.

Duration: Too long lasting.

Character of blood: Dark clotted, flows in black spasm with pain in the uterus with twitching.
Pain comes gradually and goes away gradually with numbness of the pelvic region.

The menstrual periods sometimes return every fourteen days.

Concomitants : In hysterical ladies, where PRIDE predominates.
Labour :

The parts are very much sensitive to touch. During laour the contractions are interrupted by

sensitiveness of vagina and the internal parts. It is impossible for the physician to make the usual

Genital symptoms :

Genital organs are exceedingly sensitive. She cannot bear even the napkin to touch her
Private parts. She will go into spasm from an examination. There issexual erethysm which isone of the
most prominent features of the Platina lady.

There is great nymphomania, especially in a lying in woman, with excessive sexual development in
virgins. There is vaginismus with spasm and constriction, although there is unusual sexual excirment and
voluptuous crawling in the genitals. Such extreme sensitiveness of the sexual organs make the woman not
to wear the pads during menstruation. Vulva is very much painful. It, is not due to any inflammation, but
due to HYPERAESTHESIA AND SENSITIVENESS. Therefore, she cannot endure coitus, If coition is
attempted; she faints during the act.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

Abdomen : Colicky pain in the abdomen, Painter's colic. Pain in, the ubmilical region extending
through the back.

Pressing and bearing down sensation.
There is much flatulence and fermentation.
