Calearea Carbonica 153

10. Mind : Calcarea carb. manifests very characteristic mental symptoms which can be
summarised as follows:-

There is great apprehension, which becomes worse towards evening. Fear of darkness,
loss of reason, misfortune, contagious and chronic disease. Fears that she will lose her
reason or that people will observe her mental confusion. Very forgetful, confused and
low spirited. Dejected and melancholic. Great anguish with palpitation. Restlessness
of mind with gloomy mood and anxiety. Peevish, always obstinate and self-willed.
Indisposed to all work. Aversion and repugnance to work with great irritability.
Slight mental effort produces heat. The least mental excitement causes profuse return
of menstrual flow. The patient is timid and restless, as if an evil was impending over
her. Solitude is a burden to her with, coldness of face, of hands and feet. Great desire
to be magnetised (Phosphorus, Silicea).

11. Aliments from : Defective assimilation, imperfect ossification, suppressed sweat,
alcohol, cold moist wind, self abuse, over-lifting, strains, mental strains, loss of vital
fluids, suppressed eruption, suppressed menses, suppressed foot sweat, fright, etc.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : There is Sour taste in mouth with great thirst in the afternoon. Toothache only while
eating. The toothache is aggravated by both heat and cold and in the evening. Putrid and offensive smell
from the mouth.

Stomach : The pit of stomach is swollen like an inverted saucer and is very painful to pressure.
There is great craving for undigestible things such as chalk, coal, pencil, salt, etc. (Alumina, Cina, Cicuta,
Nitric acid, Psorinum). The patient has great longing for eggs, especially either during sicknmess or
convalescence, but has aversion to meat, fat and milk which disagree. Acidity of the digestive tract is
very prominent. There is frequent sour eructation, sour vorniting and stool. When the patient is tired and

overworked, there is complete loss of appetite, with pain in the epigastrium, which is very painful and
tender to touch. Aggravation by eating and by pressure.

Abdomen : The abdomen is pot-bellied and is very sensitive to slightest pressure. Liver region is very
painful, aggravated by stooping. Inguinal and mesenteric glands are swollen and painful. Increased
deposition of fat in abdomen, with consequent distension and hardness.

Stool : Calcarea carb. patient is habitually constipated and the patient feels better in every
way when constipated. However, there may also be occasional diarrhoea especially in children during
dentition period. The character of stool is white and sour smelling.

Respiratory organs :
Nose : Nasal symptoms are caused by exposure to cold.
¢ Character: There is frequent sneezng without cold, Dry coryza with much sneezing.

¢ Modality: aggravated by exposure to cold.
¢ Concomitant; The above symptoms may be associated with or followed by violent headache.

Throat :
* Causation: Exposure fo cold.
