Selenium 561

He is weak, ill humoured after coitus. There is involuntary dribbling of semen & prostatic fluid which
oozes while sitting, at stool, during sleep. It can be thought of in priapism where glands are drawn up.

It can be compared with Agnus Castus, Caladium, Calc, Garb, Conium, Lycopodium, phos. acid,
staphy etc.

Agnus Castus : In Agnus there is complete impotency usually resulted from frequent attacks of

after abuse of sexual power. Patient is prematurely old from seminal losses. There is relaxation,

flacidity, coldness of genitals. No sexual power or desire. Even voluptuous- fancies excite no erection.
Melancholia, apathy, mental torpor, self-contempt and general debility are characteristic features of Agnus
Cas-tus.

Caladium : It is preferable in advance cases of sexual weakness. Impotency with mental depression;
penis is relaxed with sexual desire and excitement. There is no erection even after caress, no emission,
no orgasm during an embrance.

Calc-Carb : It typifies the bad effects of early masturbation. Every coitus is followed by weakness of
mind & body. Ejaculation is tardy and unusual weakness follows indulgence. Conium Mac—tt is a great
remedy for impotency from excessive sexual indulgence and also the remedy for bad effects that arise out
of suppression of sexual desires, especially in aged, old peoples.

Lycopodium : It is suited to impotence of young as well as old men. Impotency from onanism or
sexual excess; penis is small, cold, relaxed. In old men there is strong desire but imperfect erections.
Patient falls asleep during an embrace. There may be premature emission.

Phos acid : This too is a remedy for impotency, when the patient suffers from nightly pollutions—
sometimes several in one night. There is frequent, profuse and debilitating emissions, Desire increased
after coitus. The patient is mentally sad, abashed, despair of cure. In onanism, too, patient is greatly
distressed by the culpability of the act.

Staphysagria : This is a good remedy for spermatorrhoea after masturbation with sunken features,
guilty, abashed look. Seminal emission is followed by backache, weakness, and relaxation or atrophy of
sexual organs. Patient is highly irritable and persistently dwelling on sexual subjects; Con-stantly thinking
of sexual pleasures.

Skin

Hair falls out from brows, beard, and genitals. Dry scaly eruption on palms, with itching. Itching
about the ankles and folds of skin, between fingers. Itching about finger joints and between fingers, on
palms. Vesicular eruption between fingers. Comedones with an oily surface of the skin. Acne. Itch
checked by mercurials or sulphur oftern requires selenium,

General Modalities :

Aggravation : Draft of air, in the sun, from lemonade, tea or wine.
Amelioration : Taking cold water or cold air into the mouth.

Relation :

Compare : Phos. in genito-urinary and respiratory symptoms, Arg. m. and Stan, in laryngitis of
singers or speakers. Alum, hard stool, Inactive rectum.

Follows well : After, calad, Nat, staphy, phos, acid In sexual weakness,
