Berberis Vulgaris 123

7. Stitching pain in the liver region and gall-bladder, shooting up to left shoulder;
worse by pressure.
8. Fistula in ano alternating with chest symptoms (Cale. phos., Silicea).
9. Gall-stone colic followed by jaundice.
10. All the symptoms are worse from motion, jar and touch.
11. Urine is greenish, bloody, turbid/and full of slimy mucus.

ened

——

PARTICULARS

Gall-stone colic :
It has got marked action on the liver and produces various kinds of manifestations.

* Character of pain: There is short, sudden, stabbing, puncturing type of pain in the liver region.
The pain is shooting, tearing, burning, stitching and tingling, wandering from one side to another.

* Modality: Pain is aggravated from little jar and motion,

* Concomitants; Gall stone colic is often associated with jaundice. Stool white, bileless, clay
coloured. = —

Urinary Symptoms :

Urine : Constant urging to urinate; sensation as if some urine remained after urinating, with burning
pain in the bladder. The bladder becomes very irritable and urine very slow to flow.

Character of urine: Greenish, bloody with mucus and jelly like sediment. It may be dark, turbid.
with copious sedimentation. :

Renal-colic :

¢ Causation: Due to stone in kidney.

* Location: Left sided, starting from left kidney to ureter, then to urinary bladder and coming
down to urethra.

© Sensation:
(1) Numbness in the kidney region.
(2) Bubbling sensation in the kidney region.
(3) Stiffness in the kidnty region.
(4) Lameness and painful pressure in kidney region
(5) Burning and soreness \n the kidney region.

* Character of pain; Stitching cutting pains from left kidney following the course of ureter,
bladder and then to urethra. Pain run up to the kidney, burning, stitching in several successive waves In
the region of kidney.

In acute condition, the pain is more severe. There may be haematuria with soreness in urethra.
The character of urine may be bloody, greenish with thick slimy mucus and jelly-like sediment.

In thronic condition the urine may be dark, turbid with copious sedimentation. Urine is very slow to
flow with constant urging.
