A
nitric Acid 447

Adamant and unmoved by any amount of apology because he is so rude and
unsympathetic.

Very sensitive to rattle of wagons over paved streets to noise touch, pain, jar or
motion.

Hardness of hearing is relieved by riding in a carriage or train.

Irresistible desire to curse and swear (Anac.).

Great sadness before menses (Ammoncarb., Stannum met.) .

16. Ailments from : Some virulent poison, mercury, syphilis continued loss of sleep,
long lasting anxiety, over-exertion of body and mind, anguish from loss of a dearest
friend or repeated use of Digitalis.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Cassation: Resulting from virulent poisoning loss of sleep, anxiety or over exertion or bereavement
and from pressure of hat.

Location: Drawing, stitching and throbbing pain, in temples; siiae bone pain in left temple.

Sensation: Congestive headache as if the head was tightly bound up; with sensation of a band
around the head.

Character of pain: Pain comes suddenly and goes suddenly, splinter like pricking pain congestive
and throbbing.

Modality: Headache in the morning on waking, disappears on rising; better while riding in a
carriage.

Concomitants: Vertigo in the morning with weakness and profuse falling of hair.

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :

Mouth Putrid breath from mouth with offensive saliva and feeding, soft and sponay gums and loose
teeth. Tongue is clean and red. Ulcers on soft palate and in entire mouth with splinter-like pain; mercurial
or syphilitic ulcers in mouth with typical pain

Throat : Hoarseness of voice; tonsils swollen, red and ulcerated with PRICKING SPLINTER LIKE
PAIN. Diphtheritic membrane on throat, fauces, larynx pharynx; extending to nose with pricking pain:
worse when swallowing; burning in throat.

Stomach : Stomach and abdomen are very tense; wants to make the clothes loose; sour or bitter
taste and eructation; weak and debilitated person and whose digestion is weak. There is great appetite
and thirst, but cannot digest food. Persistent nausea and vomiting of offensive, undigested food, tenacious
and bloody mucus. Nausea and vomiting are relleved by riding in a carriage, STICKING, SPLONTER
LIKE PRICKING PAIN IN ABDOMEN; chronic enlargement of liver and spleen with the typical pain in
right hypochondrium; icterus, clay coloured stool.

Diarrhoea : Nitric acid patient is inclined to have diarrhoelc stool rather than constipation.

* Causation: The reason for the diarrhoea fs, as usual, dependent upon some virulent poison, bad
effects of loss of vital fluid, haemorrhage, broken-down cachectic constitution, etc.
