ALLEN’S KEY NOTE — an easy explanation 717

Genuine collapse (Crotalus.) A state of extreme weakness with physical and mental
depression different from collapse due to sudden shock.

Glairy mucus (Ipec.) Mucoid, vicious resembling the white of an egg.
Gleet (Agnus, Petros, Sep.): A mucous discharge from the urethra in chronic gonorrhoea.

Globus hystericus (Lac — D.) A sensation as of a ball in the throat or as if the throat were
compressed, occurring in emotional attacks.

Gloomy, foreboding(Phos.) Depressed; Having presentiment, specially of evil.

Glued (Mez.) Pressed firmly together.

Gout Stones (Led.) Nodular swelling due to the deposition of sodium biurate in gouty person.
Gouty Concretion (Benz. A.) Gouty stones; Gouty nodes.

Gouty diathesis (Benz. A.) Constitutional predisposition to gout.

Granular conjunctivitis (Arg. N.) Granular lids; Trachoma.

Grasping a flocks (Hyos.) Trying to catch tuft of wools or cotton etc.

Grave to gay (Nux. M.) Serjousness to joyfulness.

Green corn (Kreos) Unriped corn.

Grumous (Ham.) Clotted; lumpy.

Habitual abortion (Caulo) A condition in which a woman has had three or more
consecutive, spontaneous abortions.

Haemoptysis (Trill. Millef.) Coughing up of blood from lungs.

Haemorrhagic diathesis (Ammon C, Carb. V., Cinch, Crot. H., Croc. S., Ipec, Kreos., Phos.,
Sec. C.) The constitutional or inborn state disposing to haemorrhages from different
orifices of the body.

Hallucinations (Bell, Stram, Tub.) A subjective perception of what does not exist.

Hamstrings (Ammon. M,) Tendons bounding the popliteal space on either side; the inner
comprises the tendons of the semimembranosus, semitendinosus, graeilis and sartorius
muscles, Outer h. is the tendon of the biceps femoris.

Hangnail (Nat. M.) A loose tag of epidermis attached at the proximal portion in the medial
of lateral nail fold.

Hard thump (Aur. M.) Heavy stroke.

Hay fever (All. C., Psor., Tub.) Acute allergic condition caused by pollen, grass & flowering
shrubs.

Head strong (Nit. A., Sil.) Violently self-willed; obstinate,

Heart burn (Sulph. Ac.) Pyrosis i.e. the raising of small quantities of acid liquid from the
stomach.

