silicea 571

Glandular affection : Inflammation and swelling of all the glands both extrnal and internal; all in a
crop or singly especially in the region of the and heck with threatened suppuration. Inflammation, swelling
and suppuration of glands—cervical, axillary, parotid, inguinal, sebaceous all may become malignant and

gangrenous.

Sexual organs :

There is burning and soreness of genitals, with eruption on the inner parts of the thigh. Chronic
gonorrhoea, with thick and foetid discharge. Leucorrhoea is milky and acrid causing itching of vulva and
vagina which are very sensitive to touch. There may be discharge of blood from the vagina evrytime the
child nurses and also appear in labia. Silicea promotes expulsion of moles and also corrects threatened
abortion and stops haemorrhage after abortion.

Elephantiasis of the scrotum, with sexual erethysem and nocturnal emission can also be treated
successfully with this great remedy. HYDROCELE especially of a child, is controlled by this drug.

Nipples are very sore; ulcerate easily, NIPPLES ARE DRAWN IN LIKE A FUNNEL (Sars., Hydrastis).
There may afso be fistulous ulcers of breasts.

Skin :

Silicea is one of the top ranking remedies for PROMOTING AND CONTROLLING THE PROCESS
OF INFLAMMATION AND SUPPURATION. It has got a tendency to promote and expel foreign bodies
from the tissues wherever they may be lodged. Old scar becomes painful again, indurated, shiny and
glossy due to sluggish constitution, resulting from bad effects of vaccination.

Unhealthy skin :

Every injury suppurates (Hepar, Graphites, Petroleum). Crippled nails on fingers and toes. Felons,
abscesses and old indurated tumours come within the domain of this remedy. Silicea has a wonderful
control over, the suppurative process—soft tissues, periosteum or bones, maturing abscesses or when
desired for reducing excessive suppuration. Delicate, pale, waxy skin. Small wounds heal with difficulty
and suppurate profusely. There are painful pustular eruptions, at last forming suppurating ulcers, on
forehead, occiput, sternum and spine. Eczematous or herpetic eruptions, disposition tp boils in various
parts which are very painful to touch, fistula lachrymalis, in growing toe-nails; panaritium, blood boils.
carbuncles, ulcers of all kinds. Fistulae are very painful and offensive with high spongy edges, proud
fleshes in them. Fissures in anus, causing intolerable pain while passing stool.

Silicea Baby :

Silicea is adapted .and suited to growing children who suffer from malnutrition, not because the
food is lacking in quantity or quality because the system does not assimilate the food materials
properly. The baby is psoric and HIGHLY CHILLY, having scrofulous and tubercular diathesis, WITH
LARGE HEAD OPEN FONTANELLES AND SUTURES; POT BELLIED ABDOMEN. Constiution which
suffers from bad effects of vaccination.

The baby is very slow in learning to walk due to weak ankles resulting in retardation of walking
because of deficiency and in “bone-forming” substances.

Sweat: The baby has very OFFENSIVE foot-sweat; furthermore, the sweat in axillae and hands is
also offensive, There is sweating behind the neck and in the region of occiput. (Calc. carb.).

Skin: The baby suffers from various kinds of skin troubles caused by bad effects of vaccination. Every
little inury suppurates; inflammation, swelling and abscess formation after vaccination.

Constipation: Stool is difficult to evacuate from the rectum due to its inactivity. The stool partly
comes out and then recedes back.
