234 “Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

6. Vertigo on quickly turning the head with confusion and pressive pain in the orbit,

Dullness and giddiness at the beginning of colic accompanied by pressive frontal
headache.

7. The patient usually has left sided affections.
8. Desire for bread and beer. Aversion to food and talking.

9. Mind : The patient is EXTREMELY IRRITABLE, impatient; becomes angry or
offended on being questioned. He is so irritable that he throws away things out of
his hands. Complaints are caused by ANGER AND INDIGNATION. (Staph., Bry.,
Cham.).

10. Ailments from : Anger, indignation, mortification, vexation arid exposure to cold.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Anger with indignation and mortification, vexation, taking cheese, suppressed menses
and exposure to cold.

Location: Headache is normally felt in the frontal region. ;

Character of pain: There is pressive and burning pain in the frontal region with soreness of scalp.

Modalities: Headache is worse by stooping, lying on back, anger and indignation. Better by pressure
and by bending head forward.

Concomitants: Confusion and pressive pain in orbit; vertigo on quickly turning the head.

Vertigo :
Causation: Anger, indignation, mortification, vexation, suppressed menses and exposure to cold.

Character: There is VERTIGO ON QUICKLY TURNING the HEAD, especially to the left, as if he
would fall, with confusion and pressive pain in the orbit. Dullness and giddiness at the beginning of colic.
accompained by pressive frontal headache.

Colic :

Causation: Anger with indignation, vexation, taking cheese, exposure to cold and suppressed
menses

Location: Colicky Pain is felt in the whole abdomen,

Character of pain: There is terrible agonising pain in the abdomen, compelling the patient
to bend double, pain is violent and gripping type. Abdomen is very sensitive to touch. Pains come in
paroxysms; become very severe every few minutes. The patient twists and turns to get relief.

Modalities: .
* Aggravation by eating and drinking, by taking cheese, and by touch.

* Amelioration: By bending double, motion, bending forward, hard pressure and discharge of
flatus.

Concomitants: Colicky pain may be attended with neuralgia; headache of violent nature with cutting
and boring pain in the head.
