652 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

4. Always feels better in every way as soon as the MENSES APPEAR; it relieves all
sufferings (Lach.—rev. of Actaea racemosa).

5. Relief from all natural discharges, i.e., of back by seminal emission; genera]
amelioration by menstrual flow.

. There is general twitching, jerking and trembling all over the body.

. The patient cannot bear any covering during sweat stage.

. There is marked anaemia present.

. Convulsion, chorea, paralysis and vertigo from suppressed eruption and from fright.
10. Hasty eating and drinking is very characteristic.

oo ns

11. There is great intolerance of wine, even a small quantity aggravates all the troubles.

12, Sudden spasmodic bursting sensation about the heart; seems as if it would burst
through the chest.

13. There is INSATIABLE HUNGER AT 11 A.M./12 NOON.
13. Desire for food at lla.m., or 12 noon. Aversion to wine, meat and sweets.

15. Ailments from Defective vitality; under developed or suppressed exanthemata
and skin eruptions, suppressed foot sweat and wine of even a small quantity.

PARTICULARS

Head:

Vertigo; falling to the left when walking. Sensation of eyes drawing together, followed by nausea.
vomiting and trembling. Heaviness and dullness in head; hemicrania. Automatic motion of head and
hands. Forehead is cool and base of brain hot.

Headache from wine or alcohol, after taking even a small quantity. In hydrocephalus and meningitis.
the patient rolls the head from side to side. Bores the head into the pillow. Impending paralysis of brain.
There are symptoms of effusion into ventricles.

Extremities :
Due to defective vitality and lack of brain and nerve power, there is INCESSANT AND VIOLENT

FIDGETY FEELING AND WEAKNESS IN THE FEET AND, THEREFORE, THE PATIENT WANTS TO
.KEEP “THEM MOVING CONSTANTLY.

There is also excessive nervous movement of feet in bed for hours after retiring, even when asleep.
Feet are sweaty and sore about the toes; foetid and suppressed foot sweat. There is great weakness and
trembling of extremities. During sweat, the patient cannot tolerate covering, Sweat relieves. There is
general amelioration by menstrual flow.

Convulsion :

Causation: Cerebral affection; paralysis of brain, effusion into ventricles, during dentition period in
children, from suppression of eruption and fright.

The patient cries out during sleep; whole body jerks while sleeping. The patient wakes up frightened;
rolls the head from side to side; bores the head into the plllow; face alternately pale and red; PALE FACE,
