CARBO VEGETABILIS

Vegetable Charcoal HAHNEMANN Wood Charcoal

INTRODUCTION

Carbon is an important constituent of each
and every cell in the human body. It maintains
the vitality and integrity of all the organs and
tissues. Carbo veg. is indicated mainly in the 1st
and 2nd childhood and when the resistance of the
body is low and is incapable of coping up with the
external environment.

Carbo veg. is rather an “inert” substance
which is made medicinally useful and a powerful
agent of great helping value by fine trituration.
Its true latent power of helping is developed when it is sufficiently potentized.

It is a chronic, deep and long acting anti-psoric medicine which enters deeply into
life. It mainly affects the VENOUS SIDE OF THE ECONOMY producing symptoms of
IMPERFECT OXIDATION, BLUENESS, ECCHYMOSIS AND  PASSIAVE
HAEMORRHAGE resulting from deficient capillary circulation. It is mainly indicated in
the last stage of exhaustive diseases which result in disintegration and improper
oxidation of the tissue with ‘air hunger’.

CLINICAL

Acidity, Acne, Angina pectoris. Aphonia, Asthma, Bronchitis, Carbuncle, Cancerous
affection, Cholera, Constipation, Cough, Debility, Diarrhoea, Dentition, Dysentery,
Dyspepsia, Disorders of Pregnancy, Emphysema, Eructation, Epistaxis, Fevers, Flatulence,
Gangrene, Haemorrhage, Haemorrhoids, Headache, Heart affections, Lung affection,
Measles and Mumps, Orchitis, Otorrhoea, Stomach disorders, Skin affection, etc.

SPHERES OF ACTION

Carbo veg. acts very particularly upon the sanguinous and nervous system and all
the vegetative process of the body. Affects vascular system, particularly the venous side:
blood and capillary, mucous membrane, gastro-intestinal tract and lung.

PATHOGENESIS

It causes sluggishness, turbidity and swelling of the parts. Everything about the
economy is sluggish, turbid distended and swollen. The head feels full and the limbs feel
dull and puffy. The veins are relaxed and paralysed. It also produces vaso-motor
paralysis.

182
