Aconitum Napellus 13

capillaries, resulting in tension and congestion with tendency towards
inflammation. The genius of this highly useful remedy is through mental sphere and it
is always important to consider the mental symptoms. Its action on heart retards the
intensity of its function.

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up : Since Aconite is purely an acute drug, consideration of
constitution is not of much importance. However, it is indicated in acute cases occurring
in plethoric sanguine persons with rigid fibres, dark hair and eyes, full of plethoric habits
who lead a sedentary life and who are most in need of Aconite are strong, robust people.
Aconite is the remedy of the rosy, chubby and plethoric babies.

Temperament ; Sanguine temperament.

Relation with heat arid cold : No definite stamping can be made in this respect. Still
Aconite seems to be a ‘warm blooded’ patient.

Miasm : Psora is the miasm in the back-ground.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. “Tension” is the key-note of Aconite (Key-note of Belladonna is congestion). Due to
irritation of the mind and affection of circulation, tension always prevails in Aconite
patients.

2. Aconite is indicated in the first stage of any acute case which starts suddenly and
violently like a storm.

3. It is one of the Trios of restlessness (others being Arsenic and Rhus tox.). The
patient is very much restless. Cannot remain in one place. He is full of energy, vigor
and strength; as such, moves frequently from place to place. (Aconite patient moves
quite frequently because physically he is very strong and he can move about, but in
Arsenic the patient is too weak to move although he wants.)

4. There is great fear and anxiety of mind : intense nervousness. The very face of
Aconite expresses FEAR and this remedy is curative of ailments from fright, mental
or physical. The patient tosses about in agony; life is rendered miserable by fear.

5. Fear and fright are the most characteristic manifestations of Aconite—fear of
death even predicts the time of death. (In Arsenic patients too, there is fear of
death. He feels that the disease is fatal and he is surely going to die. But the
difference is that Arsenic patient does not predict the time of death and he feels
that the. disease in incurable and fatal. Therefore, there is no use of taking any
medicine; hence no doctor is to be called, The Aconite patient thinks that unless
proper medicine is taken, he is going to die and, therefore, wants the doctor to be
called immediately.)

6. Dry and hot skin with rare sweat (Nash). (Where there is sweat it is only on the
parts rested upon—Boericke).

7. According to Nash, Aconite is one of the greatest pain remedies. His Trios of pain
remedies are Aconite, Chamomilla and Coffea. Aconite screams with pain, pains
