Eupatorium Perfoliatum 277

3. Painful SORENESS runs throughout Eupatorium perfoliatum e.g., soreness in eye
balls, cough with extreme soreness down trachea, soreness of chest, headache with
soreness.

4. The chill is nearly always in the morning and is preceded for several hours by
thirst, soreness and aching of bones.

5. Periodicity is well marked, i.e., every 3rd or 7th day. Postponing type, chill at 9 a.m.
one day, at noon the next day and so on,

6. Insatiable thirst before and during chill and fever. Knows that chill is coming
because he cannot drink water enough.

7, Pain comes quickly and goes away quickly.
8. Bilious vomiting between chill and heat stage of getting on hands and knees.
9. Vertigo with sensation as if falling to the left.
10. A characteristic of Eupatorium cough is, relief by getting on hands and knees.
11. Sweat relieves all pains except headache (Nat. mur, Psor.).

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Time: Periodical headache, every 3rd or 7th day.
Location: Pain at the base of brain.
Sensation: Congestive type of headache. Sensation as if head is going to burst.

Character of pain: Throbbibg pain in the head, pressure as if a cap of lead pressed over the whole
skull; extreme soreness of the head.

Modality: Aggravation after lying down.
Concomitants: Vertigo with headache, sensation as if falling to the left.

Respiratory Symptoms :
Cough : Chronic loose cough with coryza and sneezing.
* Causation : From suppressed intermittent fever or after measles.
* Sensation : Cough excited by tickling in the chest, causing tightness of the chest.

* Character of cough : Hawking cough with difficulty in breathing; while coughing the patient
must support the chest with hands.

* Character of sputa : With cough, there is scanty expectoration.

+ * Character of pain : Sharp pain through right chest on deep inspiration and with SORENESS
HEST,

* Modality : Aggravation from lying on back, from Inspiration, relieved by lying on hands and

Extremities : In chronic cases of gout and rheumatism this medicine is of great help.
* Causation: After malarial fever.
