84 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Skin :
Causation: Trauma or any mechanical injury.
Location: Underneath the skin; ecchymosis.

Sensation: SORE, LAME, BRUISED FEELING OF THE AFFECTED PARTS: very much sensitive to
touch.

Tendency to small painful boils, which come one after another.

Fever :

Generally indicated in typhoid fever.

Symptoms during fever. Sore, lame, bruised feeling all over the body. Great restlessness (Rhus tox.,
Pyrogen, Baptisia). EVERYTHING ON WHICH THE PATIENT LIES FEELS TOO HARD and that is why
he becomes restless. Patient consequently moves from place to place in search of a soft spot.

During fever, there is low muttering delirium. The patient lies unconscious. Whenever anything is
asked, he answers correctly and in-full, but unconsciousness and delirium at once return (Phosphoric
acid—falls asleep in the midst of an answer, Baptisia). The patient says that there is nothing wrong with
him and there is no matter with him. During fever, there is involuntary evacuation from bowels and
bladder.

In fever, it differs from Baptisia. In Baptisia fever, there is also sore, lame, bruised-feeling. In
whatever position the patient lies, parts resting upon the bed feel sore, lame, bruised and hot, the
bed feels hard as found in Arnica. In Baptisia, there is low muttering delirium, but delirium returns in the
midst of the answer. Whereas in Arnica, the patient answers correctly and in full and then the delirium
returns (Phos. ac.).

Offensiveness of discharge is of superlative degree in Baptisia e.g., stool, urine, sweat, etc. and even
breath; all are horribly offensive, but not so much in Amica.

In meningeal fever, when there is heat of upper part of the body and coldness of lower, after
mechanical or traumatic injuries, from fall, concussion of brain, etc., Arnica can be thought of.
General Modalities :

Aagravation: From least touch, motion, rest, in damp cold weather.

Amelioration: From lying down.

Relations :
Complementary to Aconite, Hyper., Rhus tox.
Similar to: Bap., China, Phyt., Pyr., Rhus tox, Ruta arid Staphisagria for soreness as if bruised.
Follows well: Acon., Apis, Ham., Ipec. and Ver. alb.
Followed Well by: Sulph. ac.
