Abrotanum 7

loses flesh all the time. The baby has distended abdomen full of gas; suffers from constipation which
is relieved by drinking cold milk. Baby has croupy attack with sneezing and swaing respiration. The
child grasps the larynx while coughing with fact pale and cold.

3. Natrum mur : The baby is anaemic and cachetic with great emaciation. Here too, loses flesh while
living well. Emaciation is well-marked in neck and throat, The baby craves for salt but has
aversion to bread, and suffers from bad effects of salt. The baby also has great liability to take
cold; is irritable and cross; weeping mood and consolation aggravates.

4. Silicea is a chilly baby suffers from deficient and impaired nutrition, imperfect assimillation;
scrofulous and rachitic child with large head, open fontanelles and sutures; much offensive
sweating about the head; always covered; distended abdomen and weak ankles; late learning to
walk; late dentition; suffers from bad effects of vaccination, especially confulsion and skin affections.
Lack of vital heat. The childs obstinate, headstrong and cries when kindly spoken to. Suffers from
very difficult constipation; stool partly expelled and then recedes again (Thuja). Child desires to
be magnetised (Calc. carb; Phos).

5. In calcarea phos. too, the child is anaemic and emaciated, ahving scrofulous diathesis. Emaciation
of the whole body. The child is unable to stand; slow in learning to walk, with flabby but sunken
abdomen; cranial bones are thin and brittle; frontanelles and sutures remain open too long
or close and reopen delayed or complicated teething; bony deformities, spine weak,
disposed to curvature, unable to support body; neck is weak and therefore, unable to hold up the
head.

6. Tuberculinum baby as the very name indicates, has tubercular diathesis; is physically very weak.
There is emaciation of the whole body. Emaciation is very rapid and highly pronounced; losing
flesh while living well. The baby catches cold very easily without knowing how and from
where. The baby usually has family history of tubercular affection. It suits when the best selected
remedies fail to relieve or permanently improve.

7. Sulphur baby is hot and psoric, having scrofulous diathesis; is emaciated and pot bellied. The
baby has dirty and filthy look, weak, tall and stoop shouldered; with all the orifices of the body red.
The baby does not like to be washed or bathed. Cannot bear to stand.

These type of babies may suffer from morning diarrhoea which is painless and involunary and acrid,
causing redness of the anal orifice.

The baby may have skin affections with itch, soreness and boils which come in crops or a single boil
is succeeded by another one as soon as the first one is healed. The baby is also prone to have worm
manifestations with intense craving for sweet.

Rheumatism and Gout :
Causation ; Rheumatic affections are caused by suddenly checked diarrhoea or other secretions.

Character of pain ; In rheumatic affections, there is excessive pain, but there is no
swelling; whereas in gout, the joints are inflammed, swollen, stiff and very painful with pricking sensation;
especially ankle joints and wrists are very much inflamed and highly painful; very lame and sore all over.

Modalities :
e Aggravation : At night and from cold.

¢ Amelioration : By motion.

Concomitants : There is painful contraction of limbs from cramps or after colic. Metastatis or
rheumatism to heart is a frequent phenomenon. There is high fever during rheumatic attack Rheumatism
