Silicea 693

CHARACTERISTIC INDICATIONS

1.

It is especially suited to imperfectly nourished constitutions, owing to deficient
assimilation and corresponds to the scrofulous diathesis.

Silica “For Lack of Grit — Physical or mental”. Silica provides the “grit” of most
living things. It is indicated by those who need more stamina, especially when
malnutrition is present. Lack of stamina — mental, physical. Weakened and
exhausted states — exhausted after a few hours, to regain energy after surgery.
Lack of self-confidence coming from sense of weakness and lack of courage.

. Sensitive to cold. Wants to wrap up warm. Lack of body warmth — desire warmth, <

cold and cold wind

. The characteristic discharge of silicea is thick, yellow, and offensive. It is the

biochemic remedy for offensive discharges.

. Excessive offensive perspiration of feet, arm pits and back of neck. Offensive foot

sweat with cold feet. Diseases resulting from suppression of foot-sweat, for instance:
amblyopia, cataract, paralyses, etc.

6. Milk intolerant, even of mother’s milk

. Silica is indicated wherever there is pus formation or threatened suppuration, e.g.

abscesses, boils, gumboils, styes, etc. It is useful in the treatment of tonsillitis when
pus has begun to form.

. Skin

* It is the remedy for ailments attended with pus-formation, and is closely related
to all fistulous burrowings. Wherever pus is formed in an inflamed part of
connective tissue or skin, Silicea may be used.

Like Cal. sulph, Silicea corresponds to the process of suppuration, with the
following distinguishing features: Silicea ripens abscess, since it promotes
suppuration. Calc. sulph, by restraining the suppurative process, heals
suppurating wounds. As long as infiltration, which can only disappear by
suppuration, lasts, Silicea is the remedy, and should be continued until all the
infiltrated parts have disappeared. If then the wound fails to heal, give Cale.
sulph.

e Skin heals slowly and suppurates easily after injuries.

e Inflammation of, or injuries to, the skin, at that stage when thick, yellow pus is
being discharged.

* Carbuncles, boils, ulcers, felons, otc., if deep-seated and discharging thick,
heavy, yellow pus.

* Tendency to boils in any part of the body, especially in the springtime.
* Ulcers around nails, with unhealthy-looking skin,

e Pustules on face and neck; extremely painful.

e Leprosy, for the nasal ulceration, nodes and coppery spots.
