Digitalis Purpurea 261

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. Prostration from slight exertion.
2. Sensation as if the heart would stop beating if she moved (rev-Gels.).
3. Motion aggravates most of its complaints.

4.

Slow and weak, irregular, intermittent pulse; intermitting every 3rd, 5th
and 7th beat.

. Enlarged, sore and painful liver.

6. White and pasty stool.

10.

. Blueness of the skin, with cyanosis of face, eyelids, lips, tongue and nails, face is cold

and pale and is covered with cold sweat.

. Great weakness and deadly sinking in epigastrium with nausea and vomiting from
smell of food; clean tongue and great thirst.

. Respiration is very difficult and he often takes deep breath.

Mind : There is great anxiety and apprehension. The patient is very much
despondent and fearful. Music is unbearable. It aggravates all troubles.

The patient is very much forgetful. His memory is weak and thinking is difficult.

11. Ailments from : Alcohol, high living, sexual excess and tobacco.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Alcohol, tobacco, and sexual excess.

Location: Forehead and temples.

Sensation: Sudden cracking sensation in the head.

Character: Throbbing headache in the forehead, with stitches in forehead and temples.

Modalities: Aggravated by sitting erect, motion, music, excitement and eating.

Amelioration by pressrue, frequent profuse micturition. When the stomach is empty and in open air.
Concomitants; Vertigo with anxiety and faintness.

Heart :

that

Causation: Heart troubles are caused by alcohol, sexual excess, tobacco and/or high living.

Sensation: Sudden sensation as if the heart would stop beating if the patient moved (Fears
unless constantly on the move, the heart would cease beating—Gels.).

Character: Weak heart without any valvular complications. There is uneasiness in the region of the

heart and precordium. IRREGULAR INTERMITTENT PULSE, generally occurring at climacteric age,
aggravated by least motion, Heart's action is feeble. Heart beats more frequently, but intermits;
sometimes irregular, VERY SLOW AND WEAK, INTERMITTING EVERY 3RD, 5TH AND 7TH BEAT.
Frightful stiches in region of heart, coming on every fifteen minutes, lasting only five or six seconds each
time (Angina pectoris).
