418 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

2. Its action is characterised throughout by VIOLENCE i.e., violent pains, violent
itching, etc.

3. Patient is very much sensitive to cold air.

4. Pains of various kinds with chilliness.

5. Uleers with THICK WHITISH YELLOW SCABS, under which thick yellow pus
collects.

6. The head is particularly covered with THICK LEATHER LIKE CRUSTS.

7. Facial neuralgia after zona (eruptive diseases); toothache when the pains are
aggravated by eating.

8. In Mezereum, affections go from above downwards, from within outward and from
right to left (Clarke).

9. Aggravation at night is a generality of Mezereum.

10. Mind : Mentally the patient is hypochondriacal, sad and despondent. He is
indifferent to everything and everyone. Easily becomes angry at trifles and at
perfectly harmless things or words, but is soon sorry for it. Weak memory with
absent-mindedness and great aversion to talking. There is fear and apprehension
and faintness, as if something would happen. The faintness is caused by shock, pain
and by hearing bad news.

11. Ailments from : Anger, abuse of mercury, alcohol and vaccination.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation. After slight vexation and anger.
Location: Right sided, extending from root of the nose to the forehead.
Sensation: Feel as if the head would be crushed.

Character of headache. Violent type of headache. Pains are tearing and boring. Pain in head
causes faintness.

Modalities:
* Aggravation: From slightest touch, motion and at night.
¢ Amelioration; \n the open air, by heat and by covering the head.

Toothache :
In carious teeth, teeth decay suddenly, especially at the roots.

Character of toothache: Violent neuralgic pain; dull pain when biting on them and when touched
by tongue. There is decaying about the root of the teeth. There is also scorbutic conditions of the gum
which bleeds.

Modalities:
¢ Aggravation: At night and from touch,
* Amelioration: By keeping the mouth open and drawing the air in (rev. of Staph).
