Hepar Sulphur 311

AND HYPERSENSITIVENESS. Locally it has special affinity to respiratory mucus
membrane producing croupous catarrh and inflammation and profuse secretion.
CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Suited to torpid lymphatic constitution, persons with light hair
and complexion; muscles are soft and flabby.

Temperament: Irritable temperament: easily excited, slightest cause irritates the
patient.

Relation with heat and cold: Highly chilly patient.
Miasm: Mainly anti-psoric. But all the three miasms are covered by Hepar sulph.
Diathesis: Lymphatic and scrofulous diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Chilly patient, highly sensitive to cold air. Imagines he can feel the air if a door is
opened in the next room. Must be wrapped up to the face even in hot weather
(Psor.). Cannot bear to be uncovered (Nux—Cannot bear to be covered—Camphor,
Secale cor.).

2. The patient is very much OVERSENSITIVE BOTH PHYSICALLY AND
MENTALLY. Very sensitive to touch. According to Nash, its strongest characteristic
is HYPERSENSITIVENESS to touch, pain and cold air.

3. Sweats profusely day and night without any relief, which is sour and offensive.
Easily sweats on every mental or physical exertion.

4. Sensation of a splinter, fish bone or plug in throat (Arg. nitricum, Nit. acid,
Anacardium).

Diseases where the system has been injured by abuse of mercury.
. All the discharges are very much sour e.g. vomiting, stool, sweat, etc.
. The slightest injury causes suppuration (Graphites, Silicea, Mercurius).

. The skin is very sensitive to touch. Cannot bear even clothes to touch the affected
parts (Lachesis).

9. In diseases where suppuration seems inevitable, Hepar may open the abscess and
hasten the cure if applied in low potencies.

10. Aggravation: From COLD IN GENERAL, cold air, cold food, uncovering the part.

Amelioration: From WARMTH IN GENERAL; covering from head to foot, from
warm food and drink; IN DAMP WET WEATHER.

11. The patient has great CRAVING for sour things, vinegar, wine, acids and strong
tasting foods. AVERSION to fatty food; dislike for all kinds of nourishment.

12. Mind : Mentally the patient is very much OVERSENSITIVE AND IRRITABLE.
The slightest thing irritates him. Very much impulsive: Mother may have impulse
to throw the child into fire. Impulse to do violence and to destroy.

on af a
