a2 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. SORE, LAME, BRUISED FEELING ALL THROUGH THE BODY AS IF BEATEN,
2. The patient is very much oversensitive to pain.
3. EVERYTHING ON WHICH THE PATIENT LIES SEEMS too hard.
4, Heat of upper part of the body and coldness of lower part.
5. Tendency to small painful boils one after another.
6. Stupor with involuntary discharge of faeces and urine.
7. The patient bleeds easily; blood vessels seem to be relaxed and, therefore,
extravasation is easy.

8. Arnica is specially suited to cases where injury, however, remote, seems to have
caused the present troubles. Master Hahnemann feels that this remedy is most
suited to chronic cases.

9. Arnica causes and cures haemorrhage of any kind; haemorrhage into the tissues of
internal organs or the skin.

10. Concussion and contusions, result of shock or injury without laceration of soft parts;
prevents suppuration and septic condition and promotes absorption.

11. Local application of Arnica produces extraordinary growth of hair and checks falling
of hair. :

12. Mind : The patient remains unconscious; when spoken to, answers correctly, and
completely, but immediately unconsciousness and delirium return (Phos. acid.; falls
asleep in the midst of answer—Baptisia). The patient is in a stuporous condition
with involuntary discharge of stool and urine, specially typhoid. Indifferent to
everything. Complete inability to perform continuous active work. He is morosed,
quiet, wants to be alone, with depression of spirit and absence of mind. Low
muttering delirium or complete stupor in malarial or typhoid fever. Fears of being
struck or even touched by those coming near him. Sudden fear of death rousing him
up at night, with cardiac distress.

13. Ailments from. Bad effects of mechanical injuries even if received years ago, falls,
blow, concussion, contusion, hard work, spirituous liquor, charcoal vapour, fright
and anger,

PARTICULARS

Eye:

For conjunctival and retinal haemorrhage with extravasation and intra ocular haemorrhage from
injuries or cough. Arnica is an infallible remedy.

Gastrointestinal symptoms :

Stomach : Longing for vinegar. Distaste for milk and meat, Pain in stomach during eating. Belching
and eructation are very much foul, putrid, like rotten eggs. Putrid smell from mouth.
