254 eA” “GSA CTACA

repercussed eruptions resulting in brain affections, spasm, convulsions, diarrhoea,
vomiting, etc.

2. Spasmodic affections, cramps, convulsions, beginning in fingers and toes and
spreading over the entire body.

3. Clonic and tonic spasms; Convulsions and epileptic attacks.
4, Spasm and cramps, convulsions cough and pain are disposed to appear periodically
and in groups.

5. A strong sweetish metallic coppery taste in the mouth with flow of saliva; constant
protrusion and retraction of tongue like that of a snake (Lach),

. When drinking, the fluid descends with a gurgling sound (Arn., Thuja).

. Cholera morbus or Asiatic cholera with cramps in abdomen and calf muscles.

. Complaints begin on the left side.

. Cough in three attacks successively (Stannum), cough is relieved by drinking cold
water (Causticum).

10. Mental and physical exhaustion from over-exertion of mind and loss of sleep
(Cocculus, Nux vom.).

11. Colic, vomiting, cough (hiccough) and spasm, relieved by drinking cold water;
aggravated in the evening and at night; relieved by being mesmerised.

12. Ailments from : Fright, suppressed discharge, repercussed eruptions.

owns

PARTICULARS

Respiratory Symptoms :

Cough : Cuprum met. is a favourite remedy in whooping cough. The attacks are SPASMODIC in
nature.

Sensation: Cough with a gurgling sound in the throat as if water is being poured out of a bottle.

Character of cough: The cough is so long lasting and suffocative that the patient turns entirely
breathless, blue and rigid. While coughing, the face becomes, livid or blue. The finger nails become
discoloured,.the eyes are turned up and the patient coughs until he loses breath.

There is also rattling in the chest. Whenever the respiratory organs are affected, there is spasmodic
breathing and dyspnoea; more the dyspnoea, more likely is it that the thumbs will be clenched and
the fingers cramped. Cough in three paroxysms successively, the patient is unable to speak; becomes
breathless; blue faced, rigid and stiff, cataleptic spasm with each paroxysm.

At the end of cough, he vomits out all the food taken plus a little quantity of tough gelatinous mucus.
Modality: Worse at 3 a.m.
Better by drinking cold water (Causticum).

Cholera :

In cholera morbus or Asiatic cholera, Cuprum met. Is an excellent remedy. Its application is generally

confined to the later part of the second stage and the early part of the third stage of the disease. When
the CRAMP STARTS AND COLLAPSE BEGINS TO APPEAR, Cuprum met. is well indicated.
