170 . Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

13) Quickness of ideas and pleasant sensations.—constant succession of new ideas, each
of which was instantly forgotten.

14) Imagines that he is possessed of infinite knowledge and power of vision.

15) Uncontrollable laughter, till the face becomes purple and the back and loins ache,
16) Constant fear of becoming insane.

17) Horror of darkness.
PARTICULARS

Head :

Sensation as if top of head were opening & shutting and as if calvarium were being
lifted. There is involuntary shaking of head. Uraemic headache & when associated with flatulency.
Un-usual excitment with loquacity usually precedes the attack of migrain,

Face :
Expression : drowsy & stupid.
Mouth and lips dry Lips glued together. Saliva thick, frothy & sticky.
Grinding of teeth during sleep.

Stomach :

Sensation of extreme tension in abdominal vessels as if bursting. Appetite increased. Pain at cardiac
oriPco oetter by pressure. Pyloric spasm.

Urinary Symptoms :

Stitches and burning in urethra. Dull pain in region of right kidney. Dribbling urine, patient must
strain. He has to wait some time before the urine flows. (Nat. Mur.) Urine loaded with slimy mucus.

Sexual Symptoms :
Male : Backache after sexual intercourse. Oozing of white glairy mucus from glans. Satyriasis
Chordee. Prolonged thrill.

Female : Menses Profuse, dark, painful, without clots. Backache during menses. Uterine colic, with
great nervous agitation & sleeplessness, Dysmenorrhoea with sexual desire.

Extremities : Pain across shoulders and spine. Must stoop; can not walk erect. Thrillirs
through arms and hands and from knees down. Entire paralysis of the lower extremities.

Pains in soles, calves, ankles and knees ; very exhausted after a short walk.

Sleep : Obstinate and intractable forms of Insomnia. Catalepsy. Nightmare, Dreams of dead bodie>
Very sleepy but unable to sleep.

General Modallties :

Aggravation : Morning, from coffee, liquor, and tobacco, lying on right side. Amelioration :Fro™
fresh air, cold water, rest.

Relations :
Compare : Bell, Hyos. Stram.
