CALCAREA FLUORICA

“Synonym : Common Names:
Calci Fluoridum Fluoride of Lime
Calcium fluoride Fluor-spar

Calcium fluoride is found in the
surface of the bones, the enamel of
the teeth, the elastic fibres, in the
yascular walls and the cells of the
skin.

Loss of its ability to unite with
organic matter causes a continued
dilation or relaxed condition of these
fibres. If the elastic fibres of any
portion of the vessels of the
connective tissue or of the lymphatic
system have arrived at such a
condition of relaxation, the absorption of a solid exudation in such a part cannot take
place. This results in indurated glands, lumpy exudations on the surface of bone,
encysted tumours, hard swellings, etc.

When the elastic fibres of the blood vessels sufier a disturbance of the molecules of
Cale. Fluor., such pathological enlargements of blood vessels take place, which make
their appearance as hemorrhoidal tumors, varicose and enlarged veins and vascular

tumors, and indurated glands, post-partum haemorrage, uterine displacements and
weakening of abdominal walls.

By supplying the lacking Calcium Fluoride the elastic fibres are again restored to
their integrity, resume their power of contractility and functions properly. Exudations
are thrown off and absorbed by the lymphatics.

In general, then, the administration of Calcium Fluoride is indicated in all diseasers
which can be traced, directly or indirectly, to relaxed conditions of the elastic fibres of
those ailments having their seat in the substance forming the surface of the bone, enamel
of the teeth, walls of the blood vessels and the cells of the epidermis.

When a deficiency in this lime- salt, and consequently a deficiency of elastic fibre,
occurs in connective tissue between the cerebrum and cerebellum, an abnormal process
of thought occurs, causing groundless fears of financial ruin.

CHARACTERISTIC INDICATIONS
1. Stony hard swelling anywhere in the body is its chief indication,

2. Dilatation, enlargement of the blood vessels, being the chief remedy to restore the
contractility of the elastic fibres. Chief remedy for vascular tumours with dilated

