Carbolic Acid 187

3. The whole surface of the body is bathed in cold sweat with prostration and collaspe.
4, Sensation of band around the forehead, with dull and heavy frontal headache.
5. Ulceration all over the body and in internal parts, such as mouth, nose, throat,

nostrils, rectum, vagina, from which a discharge comes out which is very offensive
and putrid.

6. Great longing for whisky and tobacco.

7. It has cured cases of cancer of stomach and has apparently cured epithelioma of
cheeks and nose with haemorrhage (Allen).

8. Constipation with HORRIBLY OFFENSIVE BREATH.
9, In dysentery, stool contains scraping of intestine (Cantharides, Colchicum).

10. Carbolic acid 30 is of great help in uterine displacement with or without discharge
(Deschere). Cooper regards it specific in influenza in 3x potency for attack and 30
potency for resulting debility.

Particulars

Headache :
Location: There is dull and heavy frontal headache.

Sensation: During headache, the patient feels that there is a rubber band stretched tightly over
the forehead from temple to temple (Anac., Sulphur).

Character: The headache is dull and heavy.
Concomitants: Along with the headache, the patient is very much prostrated, weak and debilitated.

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : Ulcerated putrid mouth is often found in Carbolic acid patients. THE BREATH IS VERY
OFFENSIVE with bad taste in mouth, due to constipation.

Vomiting : Of drunkards or in pregnancy, in sea sickness or in cancerous condition of stomach.

The character of the vomitus is dark or olive-green and very offensive.

Dysentery : The stool contains fluid mucus, like the scraping of intestinal mucosa. There will also
be great tenesmus. The stool is very thin, involuntary; black and offensive.

Constipation : Along with the general character of constipation, in Carbolic acid, THERE [IS
HORRIBLY OFFENSIVE BREATH during constipation.

Leucorrhoea : is very copious, acrid, offensive and greenish.
Urine : Very dark, black or blackish olive-green.

Ulcers : There is great tendency to ulceration anywhere and everywhere, such as in skin, mouth,
nose, nostrils, throat, rectum, vagina, etc.

From the ulcer, putrid and a very offensive discharge comes out continuously.

Burns lead to ulceration with ichorous discharge. There may be malignant scarlatina and variola.
Various abscesses appear on different parts of the body consequent upon physical exertion, even by much
walking, but generally on the right ear. The ulcers are very painful. The pain comes suddenly, lasts for
