Sepia 563
pATHOGENESIS

Affecting the female genital organs, Sepia diminishes the general energy of the
yegetative sphere and it produces venous congestion; gastro-ihtestinal disorders, setting
in much relaxation, fatigue, exhaustion, impaired liver secretion and herpetic eruptions.
CONSTITUTION

Make-up of the body: Weakpersons with yellow, earthy complexion, discolouration
and desquamation, shallow skin, yellowishness of the face and conjunctiva, yellow spots
on the chest, a “tell tale face” to indicate the internal derangement just like a recording
clock, “moth-spots” cachectic yellow face, with yellow saddle across the nose, with MALE
TYPE OF PELVIS in women.

Temperament: Nervous temparament.
Relation with heat and cold: Very chilly patient.

Miasm: It is anti-psoric and anti-sycotic.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. Lack of vital heat, especially in chronic diseases.

2. Weakness and bearing down sensation; must sit close and cross her legs to
prevent something from coming down the vagina (Murex).

3. Pains extends from other parts to the back.

4. Painful sensation of emptiness, “ALL GONE FEELING IN THE STOMACH
RELIEVED BY EATING.

. Sense of fulness in the pelvic organs and pressure down into the anus.
. Sensation of a ball in inner parts.

. Flushes of heat and perspiration.

. General relaxation, weak, faint, empty feeling while kneeling at church.

. Dyspnoea aggravated by sitting, after sleep in room, but relieved by dancing or
walking rapidly.

10. Very sensitive to cold air “CHILLS SO EASILY”.

11, Drooping of eye-lids with catarrhal discharge (Gels., Rhus tox., Causticum,
Caulophyllum).

oonna om

12. Faints easily from extremes of heat and cold,

13. Desire for acids, vinegar, pickles, sweets, to be let alone, bread, butter, soup, wine,
spicy, pungent and bitter things. Aversion to smell of food, milk, tobacco and meat.

14. The sight or even the thought of food sickens; the smell of cooking food nauseates
(Ars., Colchicum, Stannum met.).

15, Mind : Sepia patient manifests some peculiar and striking mental conditions which
are as follows: -
