Cina 213

2. A marked feature running through Cina is TOUCHINESS mentally and physically.
Mental touchiness is manifested by irritability, Whereas physical touchiness is
marked by sensitiveness in skin of scalp, hands, feet, etc.

3. Canine hunger; but it has alternating canine hunger and complete loss of appetite.

4. Complaints which are concomitant to yawning, coming on whenever one yawns
(Guernsey).

Intense circumscribed redness of cheek (Nash).

Aphonia from exposure to cold air when Acon., Spongia and Phos., have failed.
Disire for sweets and various indigestible things.

. Patient sleeps in knee elbow position.

por nn

Even carrying does not give relief to the patient.(Carrying gives relief, Chamomilla).
10. Clean tongue (Ipecac., Digit.).

11. Mind : Mentally the patient is Aighly irritable, peevish, very cross and ill-
humoured. Does not want to be touched or looked at, cannot bear anyone to come
near him. Wants various things, but. when offered flatly refuses (Bryonia,
Chamomilla, Kreosote, Staph.).

12. Ailments from : Worms, specially round worms, taking sweets, over eating, or
eating indigestible things e.g. coal, charcoal, chalk, stone chips, etc.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Headache alternating with pain in abdomen. Worse by study or meditation and relieved by stooping.
Nose. Constant boring and digging at the nose, always pick up the nose. Itching and rubbing of nose,
due to worm trouble.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

Tongue : Cina patient generally has clean tongue, with white papillae raised on red edges.

Stomach : Canine hunger. Hungry soon after a full meal. There is great desire for sweets
and different, indigestible things. There may also be spasmodic cramping pain in the stomach.

All gastro-intestinal symptoms are aggravated from taking sweets. With the above-mentioned
symptoms, there may be diarrhoea and vomiting with clean tongue.

In diarrhoea, the colour of the stool is white, thin and watery with-undigested food particles in it.

Concomitant symptoms are: Boring of nose, grinding of teeth, irritability of mind, with nocturnal
enuresis.

Abdomen : Distended and hard from worm troubles. Cina patient wants to lie on abdomen to
get relief. There may be crampy spasmodic pain in'abdomen with gnawing sensation.

Urine : Patient, usually a child, passes turbid urine which turns MILKY and semi-solid after
sometime. White and turbid urine, passing involuntarily. In children, usually suffering fronji worms there
may be nocturnal enuresis.
