6 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Great progressive wasting, specially more in the Lower Extremities.

2. Ravenous appetite; eats well, loses flesh while living well (lod; Nat.mur; Sanie;
Tub).

3. Lientery, i.e. stool contains undigested food particles; alternate diarrhoea and
constipation (Ant.c; Nux v; Sulph; Verat.alb; Ant. t; Podo; Chelid).

4. Rheumatic conditions with heart irritation, epistaxis, bloody urine, anxiety and
trembling. Rheumatism without swelling, but Gout with swelling and inflammation,
Rheumatism alternates with haemorrhoids and dysentery (Kali bich).

5. Hydrocele in children; oozing of blood and moisture from navel of new born (Calc.
phos.), (of urine Hyos).

6. Angioma of the face.

7. Mind : The patient is very cruel; always wants to do something cruel; irritable and
ill natured, violent and inhuman, cross and despondent; with incapacity to think.

8. Aliments from : Suddenly checked diarrhoea or other secretions, malnutrition,
defective digestion and absorption.

PARTICULARS

Marasmus :
Causation: Impaired nutrition, defective digestion and imperfect assimilation and absorption.

Character: Progressive marasmus of children, with marked emaciation of Lower Extremities.
Ascending type of emaciation. The child is very weak and is unable to hold up head; great weakness
and disturbed digestion.

Concomitants : There is ravenous appetite; the child eats well, still progressive emaciation is well
marked and continues to lose flesh. Along with this, there is great weakness and prostration and a kind of
hectic fever.

Such children usually pass lienteric stool; suffer from alternate obstinate constipation and diarrhoea.
The baby is chilly, mentally irritable and ill-natured.

In marasmus :

Abrotanum can be compared with Aethusa-eyn, lodum Natrum mur, Silicea, Calcarea phos,
Tuberculinum and Sulphur which are as follows :

1. Aethusa cyn : It is generally indicated in acute attacks of the baby caused by heat of summer,
during dentition and due to intolerance of milk. The baby cannot bear milk in any form; it is
vomited out in large curds as soon as taken, Indigestion of teething children; diarrhoea and
vomiting especially in hot summer weather; followed by great weakness, prostration and
sleepiness complete absence of thirst; child is unable to hold up head; incapacity to think with
well marked linea-nasalis.

2. lodum : lodum is the hottest baby. Baby has scrofulous and tubercular diathesis, cachectic
condition, profound debility and emaciaiton of the whole body, but with hypertropy and
induration of all the glands. The baby has great, Ravenous hunger, eats freely and well, yet
