cyclamen Europaeum 257

6) Flickering before eyes, as of various colours, fiery sparks, glittering needles, visions
of smoke or fog, with headache or while getting up from the bed in the morning.

7) Pains : Pressive, drawing or tearing of parts where the bones are least covered ; as
tibia, backs of hands etc. (Sang., Can., Rhus Ven.)

8) Menses : Too early, too profuse, black & clotted better during flow (Lach., Zinc.)

9) Sleep : Late sleep in the evening, but wakes up early, too tired and sleepy.
Disturbed by anxious and frightful dreams.

10) Burning sore pain in heels, when sitting, standing or walking in open air (Agar.,
Caust, Val., Phyt.)

11) Mind : Like Pulsatilla the mental conditions of Cyclamen are also worth
mentioning. The patient is irritable, peevish, morose, and ill-humored ; there may
be great sadness with weeping disposition. She desires to be alone and dislikes
company.

Changeability of mental symptoms is the characteristic feature of this remedy.

Alternations of moods such as sadness and cheerfulness, love of labour and
indolence; joyous feeling & irritability. Memory alternately quick and weak etc.

Mental conditions arise from suppressed grief and terrors of conscience ; neglect of
duty or commission of bad act. Mental symptoms are better during profuse
menstrual flow.

12) Ailments from : Suppressed grief, neglect of duty, commission of bad act,
suppressed menses, fats, pork, coffee, overheating, overexertion, complaints after

wearing.
13) Headache : Causation—Headache from disordered stomach, fatty diet & stopping.
Location— One sided especially in forehead & temples.

Sensation : As if brain were enveloped in a cloth ; as if he had a cap on a scalp.
Character : Boring, darting, pressing & bursting headache on rising in the morning.
Modalities-Aggravation by lying on painful side, by motion in open air. Amelioration
by vomiting, cold appli-cation.
Concomitants : In anaemic patients with flickering before eyes, dim vision. Vertigo
as if objects turn in circle when walking in open air and better in a room.

14) Gastrointestinal tract:

Mouth : Saliva increased and salty taste. Tongue white or yellowish, Taste is lost;
bad, putrid feeling ; all food taste salty, burning & dryness in the throat and lips
with thirstlessness.

Stomach Causations : Eating fatty food, pork, coffee, overheating.

Nausea : Satiety after a few mouthfuls and then he loathes food which causes
nausea in throat and palate.

Vomiting : Of watery mucus, in the morning after eating.
