556 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Relation with heat and cold: HOT patient. Though the skin feels cold to touch, the
patient cannot tolerate covering.

Miasm: Psora is in the background.

Diathesis: HAEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS The slightest wound causes bleeding for
weeks (Phos., Lachesis); discharge of sanious fluid; blood with a strong tendendy to
putrescence; tingling in the limbs and great debility; especially when the weakness is not
caused by previous loss of fluids.

ae
2.

3.
. Haemorrhage (a) continuously oozing, (b) passive type and (c) character of blood is

8.

9

Skin feels cold to touch, yet the patient cannot tolerate covering (Camphor,
Med..,) icy coldness of extremities.

Relaxation and weakness of every part of the organ, like uterus, particularly the
smoothness leading to atonic activity, prolonging the labour.

Burning in all parts of the body as if sparks of fire were falling on the patient (Ars.).

thin, foetid watery, black, discharge of sanious liquid; blood with a strong tendency
to putrescence.

. Great debility accompanying various disorders. After haemorrhage, boils, diarrhoea

etc.

. Craves acids and lemonade, aversion to fat and. meat.
. Extensor type of cramps in the fingers and toes, during cholera (rev.—Cup.

met.).

Boils which are slowly maturing, very debilitating, having an unaccountable pain
and sensitiveness. They contain some green pus-like fluid (Tuberculinum).

The right side is predominantly affected.

10. Modality :

(a) Though the skin is cold—icy cold—to touch, the complaints are BETTER BY
COLD APPLICATION, UNCOVERING THE PARTS AND AGGRAVATED BY
HEAT, WARM APPLICATION AND COVERING (rev. of Arsenic).

(b) There is great aversion to heat. Aggravation from heat, warmth, and covering.

11. Mind : There is great anguish with fear of death. Fear with desire to jump into

water. The patient has madness with’inclination to bite. Weakness of intellectual
faculties is well marked. Loss of consciousness or consciousness seems to continue
to the last breath and just before death, it seems as though the patient would
improve.

12. Ailments from : Sexual excess, suppression of tears, lochia, milk, sweat, etc.

PARTICULARS

Face :

Face is pale, pinched, sunken, with sunken eyes and surrounded by blue margins, spasmodic

distortion of the whole face with liver spots.
