1

“ Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Person of hydrogenoidconstitution with shallow complexion, dark
hair and rigid muscular fibres. Physically very much weak, emaciated and anaemic,

Relation with heat and cold: Chilly patient.

Miasm: Anti-psoric and anti-sycotic.

1
2

10.
11.

. Rawness and Soreness all over the body, especially in throat with aphonia.

. Paralysis of single parts, usually right sided, with gradual decrease of muscular
power, twitching and jerking of muscles.

. Great sympathy for the suffering of others.
. Skin prone to intertrigo during dentition or convulsion with eruption of teeth,

Tendency to form warts.

. Children are late in learning to walk due to nervous weakness; unsteady walking

and easy falling.

. Great weakness; sinking of strength with trembling and drooping of eye-lids.
. Generally WORSE IN CLEAR FINE WEATHER AND BETTER IN DAMP WET

WEATHER (Hepar sulph., Nux vom., Med.).

. Insanity after suppression of skin eruptions.
. Epilepsy is cured by this great remedy when fit occurs during sleep and urine

escapes involuntarily.
Passes stool better when standing.

Guernsey commends Causticum in the after effects of burns and scalds. Patient
says, “I have never been well since that burn”

. Mind : Mental ailments are from long lasting grief, sorrow, fear fright and sudde=

emotions.

The patient has intense sympathy for the suffering of others. Melancholy mood, verY
sad, hopeless, weeping mood, excessive anxiety, full of apprehension, and
despondency.

Weakness of memory and absence of mind are very well-marked.
Insanity after suppression of skin eruptions.

13. Ailments from ; Long lasting grief, sorrow from loss of sleep, night watching, lead

poisoning, from sudden emotions, fear, fright, joy etc. Suppression of skin eruptions,
exposure to cold, burns, scalds and ferbrile condition.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache is caused by exposure of cold, toss of sleep, night watching, and effects of

sorrow, grief, fear, fright, joy etc.
