416 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Concomitants: Fever with chilliness; offensive non-relieving sweat; moist; salivated, flabby tongue
with intense thrist.

Urinary Symptoms :

Quantity of urine voided, is larger than the amount of fluid drunk. Frequent urging to
urinate even every ten minutes, especially at night, but only a little quantity passes out at a time. Urine is
offensive. Burning in urethra during and after micturition.

Leucorrhoea :

Greenish, biting, acrid, foetid leucorrhoea with much scratching. Especially at night, violent burning
after scratching, with rawness in the area.

Modalities: Aggravated from contact of urine and relieved by washing with cold water.

Breast :

Marnmae are very painful as if they would ulcerate at every menstrual period (Conium.Lac.can).
Milk in breast instead of menses.

Skin :

Every little injury suppurates (Silicea, Hepar, Graph). Profuse, offensive, non-relieving sweat. Constantly
moist skin. Persistent dryness of skin Centra-indicates Mercurius. IN BQILS AND ABSCESSES, when
suppuration has set ih with intense pain at night, not relieved by either heat or cold, with fever and chilliness
and non-telieved offensive sweat with intense thirst. Mercurius is to be thought of.

Itch is worse from warmth of bed: Vescicular or pustular eruptions, with yellowish brownish

N.B. If given in low potency, it hastens suppuration (Hepar sulph.), whereas it aborts suppuration in
high potency. Mercurius should not be given before and after Silicea.Cold abscesses when slow to
suppurate with other characteristics, call for this great remedy (Calc. carb).

Ulcers :

Irregular in shape with undefined edges. The margins are everted like raw meat and the base is
covered with caseous coat, having a dirty unhealthy look. Large ulcers bleed easily when touched and
there is pain affecting the whole body.

There is tendency for the ulcers to run together. Rapidly decomposing ulcers on the legs. Pains are
worse at night.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: At night, damp wet weather lying on right side, perspiring, warm roorn. and warm
bed.

Amelioration: Rest, coitus, weeping.
_—_—_—

Relations :
It antidoted bad effects of sugar, stings of insects.
It is antodoted by Aurum, Hepar Sulph., Nitric acid.
Incompatible: Silicea.
It follows well: Belladonna in inflammatory condition.
