710 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Calisthenics (Brotn.) The practice of various exercises (the use of dumb-bells, Indian clubs
etc.) with the object of preserving health and increasing physical strength.

Callous (Calc. Ph., Symph) The partly calcified tissue which forms about the ends of a broken
bone, which ultimately accomplishes repair of the fracture.

Calvarium (Cannabis. I.) The vault of the skull; the skull-cap.
Cannine hunger (Cina) Ravenous hunger. Canine means like or relating to dogs.
Canker sores (Ant. Cr.) Obsolete term for aphthous stomatitis.

Canthus (Borax) The angle formed by the junction of the eyelids: The inner one is known as
the ‘nasal canthus’ and the outer as the temporal canthus.

Cardiac asthenia (Pyr.) Weakness of heart.
Cardialgia (Bism.) Literally pain in the heart or pit of Stomach. Often used for heart burn.

Cataleptic condition (Graph, Sabad.) A condition of waxy rigidity of limbs induced by
severe mental shock, fear, mirth, anger or surprise.

Catamenia (Borax, Glon.) Menses.
Catarrhal laryngitis (All. C.) Acute congestive laryngitis with excessive secretion.

Cauterizing (Arg. N., Nat. M.) Application of an agent for scarring or burning the skin or
tissues by means of heat or chemicals.

Caynne pepper (Cap.) Red pepper.
Celibacy (Con.) Unmarried life.
Chafing (Sulph. A) Cracked & open fissure of the skin.

Chargin (Bry, Cham, Colo, Plat, Mur. A, Phos. A. Rhus, Staph) Acute vexation or
mortification.

Chalazae (Staph, Thuja) A small tubercle; a sty.

Chamomile tea (Cinch.) Tea prepared with infusion of the flowers of Matricarea
Chamomilla.

Chancres (Lac. C. Merc sol.) Primary lesion; the first manifestation of syphilis. It begins as
a papule on area of infiltration, of dull red color, hard and insensitive; the centre usually
becomes eroded or breaks down into an ulcer.

Chancroids (Merc. S.) Type of veneral disease prevalent in warmer climates, Also called ‘soft
sore’, causes multiple, painful, ragged ulcers on the penis and vulva, often associated with
bubo formation.

Changeable humour (Nux M.) Changable mood.

Chapped hands (Petr.) The skin of hands is dry, scaly and fissured; a type of eczema.
Charpie ((Mez) Light Indian bed-stead.

Chatters (Hyos) Talks incessantly.

Cheesy bottom (Merc. S.) Bottom of ulcer looking like cheese.
