476 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Chlorotic anaemia at the time of puberty.

Temperament: Sanguine temperament, possessing quick perception and very
sensitive nature; also having bilious, irritable temperament. Of course, this drug has a
lympthatic temperament too.

Relation with heat and cold : Though a chilly patient, its head and stomach crave
cold, cold application, cold food and COLD DRINKS.

Miasm: Being one of the leading members of the polychrest remedies, it has
symptoms of all the three miasms, psora being the basic soil.

Diathesis:
A. Tubercular diathesis : Patient is susceptible to cold. Great liability to catch cold,

enlarged neck glands (scrofula), flat chest, wrinkled, old looking face, with sunken

eyes and pointed nose, craves meat and potatoes; family history may have
tuberculosis. —

B. Phosphorus also has HAEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS, Wounds bleed very much even
if very small; wounds that appear to have healed, break open again. The character of
the blood is BRIGHT RED, WATERY AND NON-COAGULABLE— intermittent flow,
ecchymosis with purpuric spots. Acute haemorrhage rather than chronic, calls for
this great remedy.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS Pee

1. Burning is a great key-note of this drug. It is one of the TRIO of burners of Nash,
others being ARSENIC and SULPHUR. Burning is almost, as strong under this
remedy as under Arsenic and Sulphur. Burning anywhero and everywhere all over
the body. There is no organ or tissue in which it may not be found, from the outer
skin to the innermost surface of every tract of its parenchyma. Burning with or
without rise of temperature, but with functional and/or organic changes (Malignant).
Burning in spots along the spine between the scapulae, of palm and hands, in chest,
lungs ete.

2. A weak emtpty all gone sensation in head, chest, stomach and entire abdomen.

8. Craving cold things (Ver. alb.), ice-cream which agrees; cold water which is thrown
up as soon as it gets warm in the stomach (Cormpare, Bismuth and Arsenic); acids,
refreshing things wine sour things, salts and fatty food.

Aversion to tobacco, sweets, tea, pudding, coffee and beer.

4. Oversensitiveness of all senses runs through the remedy. Do not forget to think of
Phosphorus in patients who are greatly susceptible to external impression—light,
noise, odour, touch electric changes, thunderstorms, etc. (least sensitive, Opium,
Capsicum, Carbo veg.). ~ f

5. Dandruff; hair falls out in bunches, Baldness of single spots.

6. Disinclination to both mental and physical exertion even to study or to converse.

7. Restlessness is yet another characteristic. Patient moves continuously. Cannot stand
still for a moment, with CONSTANT FIDGETY FEELING ALL OVER BODY

