Cuprum Metallicum - 255

Character of stool and vomitus: There is gushing of profuse watery stool with copious vomiting.
Due to the profuse discharge, the stomach and bowels are emptied of their contents.

Look of the face: During cholera, there is collasped condition, cyanosis; the face becomes blue,
lips and nails turn blue, cold and mottled.

Cramps: During cholera, there is cramp in the extremities, pain in the soles and calves with great
weariness of limbs. There is clonic spasm, beginning in the fingers and toes and spreading over the entire
body. Flexor type of cramps (rev. Secale cor.).

Tongue: Constant protrusion and retraction of the tongue like a snake.

Sweat: There is cold and clammy sweat over the entire body. There are three remedies which tend

to collaspe and death. These are Cuprum, Camphor and Veratrum. These three drugs can be
differentiated as follows:

Cuprum for the cases of convulsive character, Camphor in cases characterised by extreme coldness

and more or less dryness, and the main feature of Veratrum is that the sweat, vomiting and purging
are “TOO MUCH” profuse and copious.

Cuprum met. has twitching, shivering, trembling; also tonic contraction, so that the hands are closed
violently. In this condition, the thumbs are first affected. They are drawn into the palms and then the
fingers close down with GREAT violence. FLEXOR TYPE OF CRAMPS are usually noticed in Cuprum
met. (Extensor type — Secale cor.). Tonic contraction; the limbs are drawn up with great violence.
Epilepsy :

Causation: From a fall or blow upon the head, from getting wet, and suppressed exanthemata.

Aura begins in lower extremities especially in knee and proceeds upwards.

There is, generally great restlessness between the attacks either filling up the entire interval or only a
part of it.

During the epileptic spasm, the face becomes red and respiration is hurried and noisy, and arms and
legs jerk, especially the left arm is convulsively jerked as if by electric shock. The first attack generally
comes during first sleep at night (Lahchesis).

Modality: Worse at night, during new and full moon.
General Modalities :
Aggravation: At night, from getting wet, from vomiting, contact, during new and full moon.
Amelioration: Drinking cold water.
Relations :
Complementary to: Calcarea carb.

It is antidoted by: Sugar mixed with milk and given freely, Hepar, Bell., Cham., Con., Dulc.,
Ipecac., Nux vom.

It antidotes: Aur., Merc., Op.
