708 Text Book of MATERIA weDKA

Apathetic (Cinch., Staph., Syph., Plumb.) Insensible to emotion, indifferent.

Apoplexy (Arn. M., Asterius, Cact. Crot. H.Ver. V.) A sudden loss of consciousness followed
by paralysis, due to cerebral haemorrhage.

Apparent relish (Cicuta V.) Seeming enjoyment.

Aphthae (Borax, Sui. A.) Small white spots on the mucous membrane of the mouth seen in
thrush, sprue, or with Vincents’ infection.

Ardent character (Nux V.) Eager, zealous, enthusiastic.

Aromatic medicine (Nux V.) 1. Having an agreeable, somewhat pungent, spicy odour. 2,

One of a group of vegetable drugs having a fragrant odour and slightly stimulant
properties,

Arrogant (Plat.) Haughty.

Articulation difficult (Pyr.) Speech difficult.

Asiatic cholera (Cup.) An acute epidemic infectious disease caused by

a specific germ, vibreo cholerae. It is marked clinically by a profuse

watery diarrhoea, muscular cramps, vomiting and collapse.

Asphyxia neonatorum (Ant. T.) Asphyxia occurring in the new born.
Asthenic condition (Ledum, Mur. A.) Lack or loss of bodily strength, weak.

Asthenopia (Ruta)
1. Weak sight, eye strain.
2. A marked tendency for visual recognition to fade rapidly.

Atrocious (Spig, Taren) Very bad.

Back ‘gives out’ (Aesc. H.) Weakness or exhaustion of back bone.

Balm of Gilead (Con. M.) Gilead Region of ancient Palestine known for its balm. Balm of
Gilead (also Balm of Mecca) : A gold coloured Oleo-resin exudate from the tree,
Balsamodendron Gileadense, once esteemed as an antiseptic & vulnerary. In ancient time
as ‘Balm of Gilead’ was thought to be a panacea for all types of wounds, similarly conium

M. is esteemed as panacea for the sufferings of old maids and old bachelors (Ref. the Bible
J. E. R. 8-22).

Basilar meningitis (Tub., Ver, V) Meningitis at the base of the brain, due usually t
tuberculosis.

Bellies of the muscles (Actea) The prominent thick central part of a muscle.

Beseeching (Stram) Asking somebody earnestly, Entreating or appealing for something.
Besotted (Bapt.) Confused.
