374 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Skin :
Causation ; Due to injury, loss of vital heat, etc.

Location: Acne on forehead, facial eczema, itching on feet and ankles. Red pimples or tubercles
on forehead and cheeks as in brandy drinkers. Stringing when touched, easy spraining of ankles,

Sensation : Pain as if the whole body is bruised and beaten. Pain in ankles as if sprained or from
false step. Pains are sticking, tearing and throbbing.

Character ; Emaciation of suffering parts. Intense itching of feet and ankles, aggravation from
scratching and warmth of bed. Long remaining discolouration after injury. Black and blue places become
green. Long continued warm sweat on head and feet.

Swelling - Swelling of feet upto knees with unbearable pain when walking, as from sprain or false
step ; ball of great toe is swollen, painful in heels as if bruised.

Abscess and septic conditioos very tender, relieved by cold water.
Modalities : Worse at night, from heat of bed and by scratching but relieved by cold water.

Rheumatism and gout :
In both acute and chronic rheumatism or gout, Ledum is efficacious.

Causation: Due to altered secretion and deposit of solid substances, like uric acid, sodium biurate
and other crystals, earthy matter, etc. in the tissues,

Rheumatic and gouty diathesis, have “GOUTSTONES" i.e. stones in the joints like wrist, fingers,
toes, etc.

Sensation : Throbbing pain especially in left shoulder. Tearing pain and sticking pain left shoulder
and right hip joint.

Location; Small joints like toes, fingers, ankles, wrist.
Character of pain:

(a) In acute type, the joints are swollen and hot. Inflamed parts are red or pale and worse at night.
The patient cannot tolerate the heat of bed and wants to be uncovered.

{b) In chronic type, the joints are swollen and very painful. Painful hard nodules, first in joints of
feet and then in hands. Periosteum of phalanges is very painful on pressure. Usually it affects
the left shoulder and right hip (Antim tart., Stram.). The ankles and soles are very painful and
sensitive; can hardly step on them. There is swelling with shooting pain in knees when walking.
Stiffness of all joints; can only move them after applying cold water.

Rheumatism and gout begin in lower limbs and ascend. Swelling of feet upto knees, with
unbearable pain when walking as from a sprain of false step; ball of great toes swollen and painful. Pain
in heels as if bruised.

Modalities: Worse at night, from heat of bed and on walking. Better from cold water and
holding feet in ice-cold water.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: From heat of bed, at night, on touch and motion.
Amelioration: From cold, putting feet in icy-cold water.

Relations :
Antidoted by: Camphor.
jt antidotes; Apis., China.
