722 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Lyssophgbia (Lyssin) A morbid fear of being affected with rabies. Immitative neurosis
caused by such fear in person who have had a dog bite (Lyssa-old term of rabies).

Magnetized (desire to be) (Phos, Sil, Calc.) Want to be rubbed.
Malicious (Anac., Lye., Nux. M.) Desire to tease or do certain offences.
Malignant dyscrasia (Hydr) Tendency to be affected by malignant diseases (Fatal diseases),

Malignant Pustules (Anth) Violent or dangerous pustules; Pustule means a small
circumscribed elevation on the skin, containing pus.

Mania (Stram, Verat) One phase of manic depressive psychoses in which the prevailing mood
is one of undue elation and there is pronounced pyschomotor overactivity and often
pathological excitement.

Marasmus (Arg. N.) Wasting away of the body, especially that of a baby, without apparent
cause.

Matrices of nails (Hyp.) The formative portion of a nail.

Melancholy temperament (Lack. Murex-p. Tuber.) Sad, low spirited temperament.

Meniere’s disease (Ther.) See Labyrinthine vertigo.

Membranous Croup (Brom, lod, Merc-C) Laryngitis with fibrinous exudation; it may be a
specific (diphtheritic) or simple plastic inflammation.

Membranous dysmenorrhoea (Brom) Dysmenorrhoea accompanied by an exfoliation of the
menstrual decidua.

Menorrhagia (Sab., Sep. Sulph, Tril.) Excessively profuse or pro-longed menstruation.

Mental traumatism (Nat. s.) Mental shock.

Mercurial amalgam fillings (Merc. D.) Filling of teeth by a mixture of any metal with
mercury.

Mesmerism (Hyp., phos) Animal magnetism; a system of therapeutics from which developed
hypnotism and therapeutic suggestion.

Meteorism (Tereb.) Excessive accumulation of gas in the intestines. Tympanites.

Miliary rash (Amman. C) Rash resembling a mil let seed in size (about 2 mm.) or Rash
marked by the presence of nodules of millet seed size on any surface.

Miller’s Asthma (Samb) Asthma of a person who grinds grain into flour with grinding stone.
Minutegun Cough (Dros.) Cough at intervals of a minute,
Moles (Sabina) -

1. An intra uterine mass formed by the degeneration of the partly developed ovum.
2. Nevus pigmentosus; pigmentary nevus; a congenital neoplasm.

Morning sickness (Lobelia, Merc., Sep.) Typical nausea and vomiting in early pregnancy.

