748 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Marasmus : Extreme emaciation cV general atrophy occurring especially in young children
not due to any specific or obvious casuse, such as T.B.

Matrix : The formative portion of a nail or tooth.

Meningitis: Inflammation of the covering membranes of the brain and spinal cord.
Menorrhagia: Excessively profuse or prolonged menstruation,

Mesmerism : To be hypnotised.

Metastasis: The shifting of a disease or its local manitestation from the part of the body to
another as seen in mumps when parotid gtena heals, testes becomes affected.

Metrorrhagia : Irregular, acyclic bleeding from uterus, particularly between periods.

Miasm: An inborn or acquired state, peculiar to an individual which predisposes him to a
disease, group of diseases or mental condition.

Micturition: Urination.

Milestones of life ; Significant or importants event in the career of a person.

Miller’s asthma : Catarrhal inflammation of the larynx in children, accompanied by, night
attacks of spasmodic closure of the glottis, causing inspiratory stridor.

Mole : Pigmented naevus. A congenital neoplasm.

Mortification: Shame, humiliation, chagrin, etc. something causing shame.

Moth spot : Discolouration of skin due to hepatic or uterine cause or exposure to sun’s heat.

Mouldy : Stale musty smell.

Mucous membrane : The mucous coat in the internal parts of the body such as mouth,
intestine, urethra, anus, vagina, etc.

Murmur: A soft sound, like that made by a somewhat forcible expiration with the mouth
open, heard on auscultation of the heart, lungs’ or blood vessels. Also used for a variety of
other than soft sounds which may be loud, harsh or frictional.

Systolic m. One heard during systole.
Diastolic m. One heard during diastole.

Musty: Having a stale or mouldy smell as in a closed room,

Naevus: Congenital lesion or discoloured patch of the skin.
Necrosis: Death of a cell as the result of diease or injury.
Narcotic ; Producing stupor or sleep,

Neuralgia : Pain in a nerve.

Nodosity : A swelling, node or protuberance.

Noxious effluvia : Hurtful to health or injurious smell.

