382 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

6) Urine has deep red colour and deposits of copious red sediments.
7) Semilateral coating of tongue. Can’t bear smell or taste of tobacco.
8) Useful in eliminating foreign substances from body like Silicea.

9) Ailments from: Alcohol, tea, tobacco, wetting feet. Foreign bodies, suppression
of eruptions and discharges.

PARTICULARS

Headache:

Causation : Headache of gastric origin, from tobacco, tea, alcohol etc. We think of this medicine
particularly in periodical headache that comes on in afternoon and continues till midnight. Nausea,
vomiting, and great prostration, profuse salivation, sweating, faintness and weak feeling in epigastrium
are the accompanying symptoms.

Modalities : Aggravation : Afternoon until midnight. Tobacco or tobacco smoke.

Gastro-intestinal tract:

Mouth: Semilateral coating of tongue is a peculiar symptom. Copious secretion of saliva, acrid,
burning or mercurial taste in mouth.

Stomach : Should be thought of in all diseases which are attended with extreme nausea and
vomiting with faint, weak and an indescribable feeling at epigastrium with cold sweating and marked
prostration such as, gastralgia, dyspepsia, asthma, pertusis etc. There is acidity, flatulence, shortness of
breath after eating. Hiccough and heart-burn with profuse flow of saliva and good appetite. Patient cannot
bear smell or taste of tobacco. (Ign., Sep.) It is often indicated in vomiting and morning sickness during
pregnancy. Chronic cases of vomiting with good appetite with nausea, profuse sweat and
marked prostration.

Modalities - Worse tobacco, afternoon, Better towards evening, warmth.

Respiratory system :

It is an excellent remedy in asthma. Dyspnoea due to constriction of middle of chest with sensation
of pressure or weight in chest which is relieved by rapid walking. Patient feels as if heart would stop.
Feeling of a peculiar pricking sensation all over the body precedes an attack of asthma.

Modalities : Aggravation with every labour pain, exposure to cold, slightest exertion, going up or
down stairs.

Amelioration : Walking rapidly anetfrom warmth.
Relations :
Compare : Ant.t., Ars., Ipec., Tab., Ver.

N.B. : For the bad effects of drunkenness In people with light hair,
blue or grey eyes, florid complexion; corpulent.
Lobelia bears the same relation that Nux Vomica does to persons of the opposite temperment.
