Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Menses : conium mac. is an excellent remedy for menstrual disorders, especially in old maids at

climacteric age. Menses feeble or suppressed or stopped by taking cold ar putting hands in cold
water.

Time: Too late.
Duration: Of short duration.
Quantity: Scanty.

Concomitants: Rashes of small red pimples over the body which cease with the flow (Dulc.). Breasts
are sore, hard and painful before and during menses (Lac can., Kali carb.).

Leucorrhoea : Leucorrhoea appears about 10 days after menses (Bor., Bov.). The discharge is
very much acrid, milky or bloody profuse, thick and intermits.

Glands : As a result of bruises and injuries, the glands are INDURATED AS OF A STONY
HARDNESS AND ALSO ENLARGED especially mammae and testicles, in persons of cancerous

tendency with cutting and stitching pain. This remedy is extensively used for malignant affection of
glands.

Respiratory organs :

There is spasmodic paroxysm of cough. Cough usually caused by a dry spot in larynx which
constantly irritates and produces dry cough with itching in chest and throat (lod.), Violent spasmodic dry
cough, only when lyingdownduring day or night. Cough is worse at night. Only when lying down and
during pregnancy.

Heart : Conium is a very good drug for heart troubls and blood pressure. There is violent palpitation

with irregular intermittent heart beat, especially of old people and old bachelor; usually after drinking.
Pulse irregular in rhythm and unequal in strength; insufficiency of mitral valve.

Sweat : The sweat of a Conium patient is also very peculiar and characteristic. There is profuse
sweat day and night, but only when the patient sleeps or even when lying down and closing the
eyes (China, Thuja, Cactus-rev, of Sambucus).

General Modalities :

Aggravation: At Night, lying down, during or rising up in the bed, CELIBACY.
Amelioratiog: In dark, from letting the affected limb hang down and by motion.

Relations :
Patients requiring Conium often improve from wine or stimulants, though persons susceptible to
Conium cannot take-alcoholic stimulants when in health.

Compare: Amica, Rhus tox. and Ruta in contusions; Arsenic in cancer, and Calcarea carb. and
Psorinum in glandular swellings.

It is followed well by Psorinum in tumours of mammae with threatening malignancy.
Antidoted by: Coffea, Dulc., Nit. acid.
It antidotes: Merc., Nit. ac.. Sulphur.
