Helleborus Niger 307

He has soporous sleep with occasional screams and shrieks during hydrocephalus which develops
rapidly, wheather it is post-scarlatina or tubercular.

There is automatic motion of one arm and one leg.

During these troubles, there is convulsion with extreme coldness of the body, except in head or
occiput which may be hot. The patient greedily swallows cold water; he bites the spoon, still
remains unconscious.

The mouth is in chewing motion; corners of mouth are sore, cracked; nostrils are dirty, sooty and
dry.

The patient bores head into pillow, rolls head from side to side; beats the head with hand.

The patient also constantly picks his lips, clothes or bores the nose with his fingers.

There is stupefying headache. Forehead has wrinkled folds and is covered with sweat. Dull pain in
occiput. Headache may culminate in vomiting.

Diarrhoea :

Patient requiring Helleborus, may suffer from diarrhoea especially during acute hydrocephalus or
dention or during pregnancy. The character of stool is watery, clear, tenacious with colourless mucus or
with White jelly-like frog spawn and involuntary.

Urine :

The urine of Helleborus is alsb very characterstic The urine may be scanty or suppressed after
dropsy. The colour of the urine IS DARK, RED OR BLACK, HAVING COFFEE-GROUND SEDIMENT
AND ALBUMINOUS. There is frequent urging to urinate but the child cannot urinate. Nash points out
that an increase in the quantity of urine is a very good sign of the favourable reaction of this remedy in
many diseased conditions, then not to repeal but to wait.

Dropsy :
There may be dropsy after suppressed exanthema. Dropsy may be of the brain, chest or abdomen,
with fever The urine may be suppressed or scanty. The skin is pale, shining and oedematous.

In chest affections or in hydrothorax, or pleurisy with effusion this remedy is infallible, and the patient
can breathe easily when lying down but when sitting up there is frequent sighing. Respiration is irregular-
chest is constricted; gasps for breath during hydrothorax.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: Worse from evening until morning, especially from 4-8 p.m. and from uncovering.

Relations :
Compare: Apis, Aresnic, Belladonna, Bryonta. Digitalis Lachesis and Zincum met., in brain or
meningeal affections.
