KAL] PHOSPHORICUM

Synonym : Common Names:
Potassium Phosphate Phosphate of potash

The gray matter of the brain is controlled [=> = MR Stites it |
entirely by the inorganic cell-salt, potassium pe acts

phosphate. This salt unites with albumen, and by
the addition of oxygen creates nerve-fluid, or the
gray matter of the brain. Of course, there is a
trace of other salts and other organic matter in
nerve-fluid, but potassium phosphate is the chief
factor, and has the power within itself to a.tract,
by its own law of affinity, all things needed to
manufacture the elixir of life. Therefore, vyhen
nervous symptoms arise, due to the tact that the
nerve-fluid has been exhausted from any cause,
the phosphate of potassium is the only true remedy, because nothing else can possibly
supply the deficiency. The ills arising from too rapidly consuming the gray matter of the
brain cannot be overestimated, and if all who are inclined to nervous disorders would

carry Kali phos. with them, in tablet form, a large amount of sickness and suffering
would be prevented.

Kali phos. is the most wonderful curative agent ever discovered by man, and the
blessings it has already conferred on the race are many.

' bree

This cell salt treats the state of worn out mothers, over-worked business people, or
anyone who has endured an intense physical/mental strain that has drained their
system. Kali phos will quickly restore the equilibrium.

We find this potassium salt largely predominates in nerve-fluid, and that a deficiency
produces well-defined symptoms. The beginning and end of the matter is to supply the
lacking principle, and in molecular form, exactly as nature furnishes it in vegetables,
fruits and grain. To supply deficiencies—this is the only law of cure.

POTASSIUM PHOSPHATE (KALI PHOS) “NERVE REMEDY”

Dr. Schuessler observed that Potassium Phosphate has an important impact on:

e Brain

e Nerves — Vasomotor, sensory, motor, and sympathetic

e Muscles

e Blood
e Intercellular fluids

678
