616 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

condylomata, warts, sycotic excrescences, spongy tumours and spongy pock exudates
which organise hastily. All morbid manifestations are excessive, but appear quietly so
that the beginning of the diseased state is scarcely,known. Extra unwanted growths, by
whatever name it may be called, in any and every tissue of the body, are caused by this
great “KING OF ANTI-SYCOTIC DRUGS, THUJA”.

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Hydrogenoid constitution of Grauvogl (Antim. tart., Natrum.
sulph., Medorrhinurn).Thuja is suited to patient having hydrogenoid constitution
(possessing an increased capacity to contain more and more water in the cytoplasm of the
cells; hence rain, cold, damp weather, vegetable food, etc., which increases the number of
molecules of water in the system, aggravate the symptoms). The patients are fleshy
having undue and unwanted growths, such as warts, tumours, cysts, etc., having dark
hair and dark complexion; unhealthy, oily, greasy skin, bearing warty excrescences and
dirty brownish white spots all over the body.

SYCOTIC DYSCRASIA

According to Dr. B.K. Bose of Calcutta, Thuja patients, look like “GANESJI”, with
distended abdomen and bulky body, having-lavish growth of various tissues everywhere.

Temperament: Lymphatic temperament; sluggish in action and perception.
Relation with heat and cold: Chilly patient (Boericke).
Miasm: Sycosis is in the background. Thuja is the king of anti-sycotic remedies.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Fig-warts, condylomata and wart-like excrescences upon the mucous
membrane and cutaneous surfaces of the body.

2. Thuja bears the same relation to sycosis that Sulphur does to psora and Mercury to
syphilis.

3. Thuja is a left-sided drug. Left side principally affected; left ovaryr! left testis, left
side of abdomen, left kidney, etc.

4. The medicine should be thought of in bad effects of vaccination (Silicea, Antim. tart.,
Mezerium, Crotalus hor.).

5. Mucopurulent, copious foul smelling discharges from all the mucus membranes of
the body.

6. There is SWEAT ONLY ON THE UNCOVERED PARTS OR ALL OVER,
EXCEPTING THE HEAD, ESPECIALLY AT NIGHT WHEN HE SLEEPS.
Sweating stops when he wakes (China, Con., Cactus—sweat only during wakingl
hours, Sambucus). Perspiration on genitals smells like honey.

7. There is vertigo WHEN CLOSING THE EYES (Lachesis).
8. Teeth decay at the roots, crowns remain sound.

9. Coition prevented by extreme sensitiveness of the vagina.
