472 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

2. Patients with a mild and yielding disposition (Puls.).
3. Patient is LISTLESS, APATHETIC AND INDIFFERENT fo the affaris of his own

4.
5.

life; prostrated and stupefied with grief.
Patient trembles, legs are weak; so stumbles easily or makes mis-steps.

Due to the bad effects of onanism, the patient is greatly distressed by the culpability
of the act (Staph).

6. Frequent, profuse, and debilitating emissions.

10.
11.

13.

14.

. Chest feels weak from talking or coughing (Stannum) in phthisis or from loss of

vital fluids,

. Pains in the back and limbs as if beaten. In children and young people who grow too

rapidly, this remedy is well indicated.

. Boring, drawing digging pains in nerves of extremities, necrosis, in stump after

amputations (Allium Cepa).
Painless and non-debilitating diarrhoea is a striking feature of this remedy.

Urine contains excessive phosphate. Profuse urination at night, of clear, watery
urine.

. Desire for warm food, something refreshing, juicy things, milk and water Aversion

to coition, coffee, wine, beer and alcohol.

Mind : Listless apathetic: Indifferent to the affairs of life, prostrated and
stupefied with grief, indifferent to those things that used to be of most interest,
especially if there be debility and emaciation.

Debility first affects mind then the body (opposite to Muriatic acid). Weak memory,
difficult comprehension, incapacity to think and disinclination to talk.

Weeping disposition.

Abashed, sad, despiar of cure with the history of loss of vital fluid. Low muttering

delirium, unintelligible; lies in a stupor, unconscious of all that is going on around
him.

Answers slowly but correctly.
Low spirited and anxious about the future.
Mental symptoms are due to bad news, disappointed love and loss of vital fluids.

Ailments from : Bad news, grief, chagrin, sorrow,home sickness, disappointed love,
loss of vital fluids, sexual excess, injury, shock operation, overstudy, onanism,
debility, acid drinks, rich food and fruits.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache is caused by grief, sorrow, LOSS OF VITAL FLUIDS, sexual excess, shock,

bad news or exhausted nerve, eye strain, overuse of eyes.
