326 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

—_

Relation with heat and cold: No definite stamping can be made on this aspect due to
the contradictory nature of the drug. The patient is, however, affected by cold, pain,
touch, odour, noise, etc.

Miasm: Psora is in the background.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1, It is a remedy of great contradiction, such as, (a) Roaring in ears relieved by music,
(b) Sore throat relieved by swallowing solid, (c) Liquid is more painful than solid to
swallow, (d) Cough is aggravated by more coughing, (e) Cough more on standing,
less or nil on walking, (f) Empty feeling in the stomach not relieved by eating, (g)
Piles relieved when walking, (h) Piles protrude when the stool is soft, but not during
hard stool, (i) Prolapse of anus with soft stool, (j) Spasmodic laughter from grief
instead of weeping, (k) Sexual desire with impotency. (l) Thirst during chill and heat
without thirst. Red face during chill, pale during heat, (m) Relieved by external heat
and aggravated hoovering, (n) Mental conditions suddenly change from joy to
sorrow and vice versa.

2. Long involuntary sighing.

3. Hypersensitiveness to all external impressions, such as pain, touch, odour, noise,
etc.

4. Pain, on a small spot that can be covered with the tip of a finger (Kali. bich,).

5. All symptoms are caused and aggravated by tobacco. There is utter inability to
TOLERATE TOBACCO IN ANY FORM.

6. There is sweat on face or on the tip of the nose on a small spot only while eating.

7. Desire for cold food, acid things, onion, fruit, bread, butter, great variety of
undigestible things and wants to be alone. Aversion to work, meat, milk, warm food,
open air and mental exertion.

8. Mind : Ignatia patient develops peculiar mental conditions which are as follows:

Mental symptoms are caused by ill effects of bad news, fright, anger, grief, vexation,
disappointed love, suppressed sexual desire, reserved displeasure and a feeling of
shame and mortification.

There is RAPIDLY CHANGING mental condition from laughing to weeping; from
joy to sorrow, one moment excessively happy, the next moment in rage, etc.

The patient broods in solitude over imaginary troubles; full of suppressed grief.
Involuntary sighing (Lachesis, Cale. phos.).

Desires, tobe alone; MOODY.

Taciturn, sad, melancholic and indifferent,

There is weakness of memory.

Unreasonable; howls and cries; slightest fault finding or contradictions excite anger;
very short-tempered patient.
