Antimonium Tartaricum 65

2. There is great accumulation of mucus in air passage which cannot be coughed out,
but gives a rattling sound, popularly known as “Death Rattle”.

3. Face becomes pale, cyanosed and flushed due to circulation of unoxydised blood,
face covered with cold sweat.

4. Nausea,vomiting, coldness and prostration run through the whole of this remedy.

5. All complaints are attended with IRRESISTIBLE DESIRE TO SLEEP.(Nux. mos.,
AEthusa, Gels),

6. There is excessive craving for apples and acids (Aloe). Desire for acids, acid fruits
and apples; cold water; strong liquors. Aversion to milk and tobacco.

7. Vomiting in any position except when lying on right side. Vomits until he faints,
followed by drowsiness, prostration and sleepiness.

8. Pneumonia with jaundice (Chel.)

9. Bad effects of vaccination, when Thuja fails and Silicea is not indicated; usually it
produces asthma.

10, Pustular eruptions like small-pox is a great symptom of Ant.tart.

11. Mind : Confusion of head with a feeling as if he must sleep. Child will not allow
itself to be touched. Bad humour during bronchial catarrh. Apprehension and
restlessness during evening. Dread of being left alone. Mental excitement and

nervousness. The patient is frightened at night. Vertigo on closing the eyes, when
walking and flickering before the eyes, when lifting the head. So she-must lie down.

12. Ailments from : Anger, vexation, smallpox, after eating, vaccination, damp,
debility, debauchery.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

Overeating, yawning and drowsiness. Vomiting in any position except when lying on right side. The
vomitus is green, watery and frothy. Due to violent straining, there is tendency to vomit.

Tongue :
Tongue is covered with thick, white pasty coat; red streaks; very red, dry in the middle. On the
tongue there are smal] pustules which are very painful. In most complaints this remedy is; thirstless.

There is perspiration on forehead; with coldness of surface, usually the hands and feet are as cold as
ice; thirstless or may drink little often.

Asiatic cholera :

There is incessant diarrhoea and vomiting until the patient faints. The patient has inordinate craving
for apple (Aloe). Very much sleepy after vomiting. Nausea Is better and relieved after vomiting. Vomiting
in any position except when lying on right side.

Diarrhoea and constipation alternate.
