v

psorinum 501

Modalities :
« Aggravation: FROM COLD AIR and winter.
« Amelioration: By eating, covering head and sweating.

Concomitants: Headache is associated with hunger. Often the appetite lasts during the whole period
of headache. Must get up at night to eat something.

Ear:

Causation : History of suppression of skin diseases. Offensive otorrhoea which is thick. purulent and
offensive. Continuous discharge with eruptions behind the ears. Otitis media. Abscess in the middle ear
with prolonged discharge, oozing from the abscess. Discharges are thin, foetid, ichorous and horribly
offensiue like spoiled meat.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :
Diarrhoea :

* Causation: Suppression of skin eruptions, change of weather, after severe acute diseases and
teething in children.

* Time: From 1 to 4 a.m.

* Character of stool: Watery, profuse, dark, brown, very-much foetid, smells like carrion, It
may be involuntary.

Constipation : Particularly in infants, obstinate constipation due to weakness of rectum. The stool
is very much hard and difficult with backache. Psorinum can be given when Sulphur fails.

Stomach : There is ravenous hunger. Hungry in the middle of the night. Must wake up at
mid-night and must have something to eat. There is pain in the abdomen after eating with eructation

tasting like rotton eggs.

Respiratory symptoms :

Throat : In CHRONIC TONSILLITIS and QUINSY, when tonsils are greatly swollen and there is
difficult and painful swallowing. Sensation as if there is burning and scalding in the throat.

Character of pain: There is cutting, tearing type of pain especially when swallowing.
Modalities:

¢ Aggravation from cold air, cold food and drink.

* Amelioration by warm application and covering.

Concomitants: With throat troubles, there is profuse offensive saliva and tough mucus in the throat.
Posorinum not only relieves the acute attack, but also ERADICATES the TENDENCY THERETO.

Asthma :
* Causation: Due to suppression of skin eruptions.
* Character: There \s great dyspnoea on least exertion with cough and weakness in the chest.
* Modalities: Worse from sitting up and in open alr.
Better by lying down and keeping arms spread wide apart.

* Concomitants: In Psoric patients who are highly chilly, greatly sensitive to atmospheric changes
and having offensive smell of the body we think of Psorinum.
