224 Text Bock of MATERIA MEDICA

1.

Vertigo, nausea and vomiting from riding in carriage, boat or railroad car, or euen
looking at a boat in motion; sea-sickness and car-sickness are the grand keynotes of
Cocculus.

2. Great lassitude of the whole body: it requires exertion to stand firmly, feels too
weak to talk loudly (Stan met.).
3. Sensation of weakness or hollowness in various organs e.g. head, chest, abdomen,
etc,
4. Time Passes too quickly (rev. of Arg. nit., Alumina, Med.).
5. Trembling of the arms and legs, usually from excitement.
6. Many symptoms aggravate during menstrual period, such as piles. During menses
debility, nervousness and anger etc.
7. Leucorrhoea in place of menses (Nux mos.).
8. When fever assumes a slow, “sneaking” nervous form with vertigo and disposition
to anger, Cocculus may be thought of.
9. Aggravation from motion generally; even least jar is unbearable.
10. Mind : Times passes too quickly. The patient cannot realise that a whole night has
passed. A week has gone, but it seems a moment.
Cannot bear contradiction; easily offended, every trifle matter makes him
angry.
There is slowness of comprehension. Cannot find the right word to express his
thoughts, so slowly does his mind work. What has passed, he.cannot remember.
Forgets what he has just read.
Great lassitude of the whole mind. Feels too weak.
All the mental symptoms are due to grief, anxiety, vexation, prolonged LOSS OF
SLEEP.
11. Ailments from loss of sleep, night watching, anger, grief, vexation and mental
excitement.
PARTICULARS
Headache :

The patient has very severe sick headache.
Causation: Headache is caused due to loss of sleep, mental excitement, grief, anxiety or

vexation.

Time: At each menstrual period.

Location: Headache starts at the nape of neck and occiput extending to spine.

Sensation: Sense of emptiness in head: opening and shutting sensation, especially in occiput.
Character of pain ; As if tightly bound by a cord, There is pressing throbbing type of pain.
Modalities : Aggravation by lying on back and from carriage riding.
