110 Text Book ot MATERIA MEDICA

Stomach : Eructations as if fire were forcing its way through the stomach causing a feelling of
sorness. Sour eructations a few hours after dinner. Nausea, palpitation and anxiety in the morning,
Pressing in stomach after eating. Sensation of soreness in the stomach, relieved by eructation.

Respiatory Symptoms

Nose : Coryza in children with large abdomen. Frequently nose bteeds. Sneezing causes concussive
pain in the brain.

Cough : Chronic cough of scrofulous children with swollen glands and enlarged tonsils. Worse after
slightest exertion. Cough comes in presence of strangers.

* Modality: Aggravation in the evening, mid-night, lying on left side, active motion, ascending,
stooping, in cold air, from thinking of it and by eating.

® Concomitants: Sensation of sorness and plug in chest while coughing.

Cardio-Vascular System

Tachycardia; feels the heart beat. Palpitation and distress when lying on left side with restlessness and
irritability. Feeling of soreness in the region of heart. Pulse full and hard. Atheroma and aneurysm.

Modality: Aggravation when thinking about his troubles.

Baby : Baryta carb. baby looks dwarfish in size, with stunted growth; fatty with swollen abdomen
and puffed face. The baby is very chilly and always feels cold to touch and also catches cold very readily.
The baby is highly psoric with tubercular and scrofulous diathesis, (Medorrhinum baby has similar
appearance, but is hot and has sycotic background. Similarly, syphilinum baby too is dwarfish, emaciated,
mentally weak, but chilly and has syphilitic background.) The baby is very much deficient mentally,
idiotic. Child cannot be taught anything or is unable to learn, because he cannot remember. Even the

baby cannot learn the art of walking and consequently, there is late learning to walk (Calc. carb..
Causicum, Silicea, Calc. phos.).

The baby does not want to play, sits in a comer of the room or street either doing nothing or doing
foolish things such as throwing stones at strangers. The baby becomes serious at laughable matters and

laughs at a serious matter. Saliva runs out from the mouth, both when awake and during sleep with
intolerable stench coming from the mouth.

Such children usually has all the glands of the body enlarged, especially enlarged and inflamed tonsils.
caused by Suppressed food sweat. Consequently, tonsillitis is a constant trouble, asscciated with chronic
cold and cough. Every cold settles in throat. Tonsils have the tendency to suppurate and quinsy. Digestion
of the baby is also weak and therefore, he often suffers from diarrhoea, constipation, vomiting etc.

General Modalities

Aggravation: When sitting, after menses, when thinking of aliments, lying on painful side and
washing affected parts.

Amelioration: Walking in open air.

Relations

Antidoted by: Antim. tart., Belladonna, camphor., Mercurlus.
Complementary to: Conium., Merc,

After or before: Sulphur, Tuberculinum.

After Baryta Carb.; Psorinum will eradicate tendency to quinsy.
Similar to: Alumina, Calc. lod., Dulcamara, Fluoric acid lodum, Silicea.
Incompatible: Calcarea carb.
