Natrum Muriaticum 439

Menses :

First menstruation at puberty delayed.

Time: Too early.

Duration: Irregular mense which may be of various types i.e., too early or too late, too scanty or too
profuse.

Concomitants: Bearing down pain which is worse in the morning. Hot feeling during menses.
Headache after menses. Sterility with too early and too profuse menstruatton.

Anaemia :
Causation: Loss of vital fluid.

It causes alteration in blood and hence produces anaemia: Cachectic condition and chlorotic look.
Blue rings around the eyes and oedema with other generalities of the drug.

Skin :
Eczema :
* Location: Especially on the margins of hair, scalp, behind the ears.
¢ Look: Raw, red inflamed and ulcerated.
© Modality:
Aggravation : From earing too much salt, at sea shore or from ocean voyage.
Amelioration: \n open air and by cold bathing.
Urticaria : Acute or chronic, over whole body, especially after violent exercise.
Herpes : Herpetic eruptions especially around the edges of hair and nape of neck.
Warts : On palms of hands (Anac., On dorsum of hand, Dulc.).

Fever blisters : Blisters at the sides of mouth in intermittent fever, like-small pearls about the
lips with lips dry, sore, crackedand ulcerated.

Nail : Hangnails, skin around the nails dry and cracked (Graph, Petrol.).

Fever :

Natrum mur., is a medicine which should be thought of especially in chronic intermittent fever. The
symptoms are as follows:-
Causation: Abuse of quinine, old, chronic, badly treated and neglected cases of fever.

Character: Periodicity well marked. Chill returns in the morning, especially at 10 to 11 A.M. Fever
with severe headache, left sided clavus as if a thousand little hammers were knocking in the brain with
coldness of the body and chilliness well marked.

Modality: Sweat on every little exertion with RELIEF OF ALL THE SUFFERINGS.

Concomitants: Fever blisters, especially at the corners of mouth. MAPPED TONGUE with red
insular patches..

Baby :

Look of the baby: Pale, anaemic, weak and emaciated, emaciation especially marked in the
neck, with long neck (short neck Kali bich.), There is descending type of marasmus. Baby LOSES

FLESH WHILE LIVING WELL.
