~ KALI MURIATICUM

Synonym : Common Names:
Potassium Chloride Chloride of Potash

It is contained in nearly all the cells and is
chemically related to fibrin. Disturbances in its
molecular action cause fibrinous exudations.

When the cells of the epidermis, in
consequence of any irritation, lose molecules of
Kali mur. then the fibrin comes to the surface as a
white or whitish-grey exudation. This, when dried,
forms a mealy eruption. If the irritation extends to
the tissues beneath the epidermis, both fibrin and
serum will exude, and the affected part of the skin
will be pushed up in the form of blisters. This is
exactly what takes place in small-pox, cow-pox vaccine disease. Similar processes may take
place in and below epithelial cells.

This gives the indication for it in catarrhs, in croupous and diphtheritic exudations,
and in the second stage of inflammation of serous membranes when the exudation is
plastic or fibrinous in character. These are practically the whole of the cardinal
indications in which Kali m. has been prescribed.

If the integrity of the affected tissue again restored by the administration of Kali
Mur. molecules, then a reabsorbtion ot throwing off the exudation occurs probably by the
formation of hydrochloric acid formed by one part of chlorine from the KCL with

hydrogen.

Kali Mur is the remedy for sluggish conditions. It combines with the organic
substance fibrin. Thus a deficiency of this tissue salt causes fibrin to become non-
functional, and to be thrown off in the form of thick, white discharges, giving rise te
catarrhs and similar symptoms affecting the skin and mucous membranes.

Its action is complementary to that of Cale Sulph, as both remedies are concerned
with cleansing and purifying the blood. In conditions calling for Kali Mur, the blood tencs
to thicken and to form clots. In alternation with Ferr Phos it is frequently needed for the
treatment of children’s ailments.

Kali Mur is the remedy for thick, white fibrinous discharges. Other prominent
symptoms are a white-coated tongue and light-coloured stools (lack of bile). Torpidity et
the liver is another indication. In alternation with Ferr Phos it is frequently needed in
the treatment of inflammatory diseases, particularly those affecting respiration - coughs.
colds, sore throats, tonsillitis, bronchitis, etc., also for children’s ailments such as
measles and chicken pox and where there are soft swellings, e.g. mumps, croup,

Kali Mur is concerned with the production of saliva and is therefore important in the
early stages of digestion, The symptoms may be worse after eating fatty or rich foods and

a —_—_

676

