502 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Leucorrhoea :

The leucorrhoea is lumpy and has got VERY OFFENSIVE CARRION LIKE ODOUR with severe
backache and debility.

Skin :

Eczema due to supression of skin eruptions. Skin looks dirty and unhealthy even after thorough
washing. The eruption may be dry, scaly or moist. Whatever may be the eruption of the skin, it becomes
thick and indurated.

The skin is very much sensitive to atomospheric changes. There is intense itching which leads the
patients to despair. He scratches until the part becomes raw. There may be violent itchingfrom the
warmth of bed without any eruption. The eczema of scalp, face and behind the ear oozes out
WATERY AND FOETID DISCHARGE. The skin eruptions are worse from bathing and warmth of
bed. Although the patient is VERY CHILLY and wants to ever up, the affected portion of skin is exposed
and dose not like to keep it covered.

The skin is generally dry and sweats rarely; urticaria after exertion, when sweat occurs, it relieves
all sufferings (Natrum mur.).

Acne : All forms, simplex, rosacea; during menses, from coffee, fats, sugar, meats when the best
selected remedy fails or only palliates.

* Aggravation: From warmth of bed, warm application, covering and open air.
* Amelioration: By sweating.
Baby :
The baby has psoric constitution. The baby is pale, delicate, sickly and HIGHLY CHILLY. Wants to

cover up all the time. The child is jolly and happy and plays all day, but becomes restless, troublesome
and screams all night (Lac canium-rev. of Lyco.).

Baby is hungry all the time, especially hungry in the middle of the night; must get up to have
something to eat.

Baby has a FILTHY SMELL ALL OVER THE BODY, EVEN AFTER BATHING. All excretions of
the body e.g., diarrhoea, perspiration, breath, etc. have a carrion-like odour.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: Change of weather, in excessive heat of sun, from cold draughts of cokd air.
Amelioration: From warm clothing, Sweating and eating.

Relations :
Complementary to: Sulphur and Tuberculinum.
Inimical to: Apis, Lachesis, Croton tig.
Antidoted by: Nux vomica and Coffea,
