carbo Animalis 181

10) A stitchirig pain remains in chest after recovery from pleurisy (Ran. b.)

11) Mind : Desires to be alone, sad and reflective, avoids conversation. Anxiety at
night, with orgasm of blood.

12) Ailments from: Loss of. Fluids. Lifting. Strain, Eating spoiled fish and decayed
vegetables. Quinine.

PARTICULARS

Head :

Headache as if a tornado in head ; as if head had been blown to pieces ; has to sit up at night and
hold it together. Rush of blood with confusion. Sensation as if something lay above eyes so that she could
not look up.

Stomach :

Weak empty feeling in the stomach is not relieved by eating. Burning & griping pain in stomach.
Eating tires patient. Flatulence. Repugnance to fat food. Weak digestion. Pyrosis.

Complaints from eating spoiled fish and decayed vegetables.

Respiratory Symptoms :
Pleurisy assuming a typhoid character. A stitching pain remains in chest after recovery from pleurisy.
Ulc-eration of lung with feeling of coldness of chest.

Cough with discharge of greenish pus.
Female :

Menses : Too early, frequent and long lasting. Flow only in the moming. After appearance of
menses so weak she can hardly speak. Burning in Vagina and labia.

Pregnancy : Nausea of pregnancy ; worse at night.
Breast : Painful indurations in breast especially right. Darting in breast.
Cancer of uterus with burning pain down thighs.

Skin : Glands indurated, swollen, painful ; in neck, axillae, groin, mammae ; pains lancinating,
cutting & burning.

Spongy uterus, copper coloured eruption. Acne rosacea. Warts on hands and face of old people with
bluish colour of extremities. Chilblains, worse in evening, in bed and from cold. Benign suppurations
change into ichorous or malignant conditions.

Extremities : Ankles turn easily, Straining and overlifting produce great debility. Joints weak; easily
sprained by slight exertion. Easily strained from lifting even small weights, Pain in coccyx ; burns when
touched.

General Modalities :
Aggravation ; After shaving (after Brom.) ; Slightest touch ; after midnight.

Relations:
Complementary: Gale. phos. Similar to, Bad., Brom., Carbo V., Phos., Sep., Sulph.
