nux Vorica 457

18. Ailments from : High hung, so-called modern living, coffee, tobacco, alcohol,
quinine, taking highly spiced seasoned food, irregular diet, overeating, sexual
excess, long continued mental exertion, sedentary habits, want of exercise, loss of
sleep, using aromatic patent medicines, pills or exposure to cold.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: As a result of the bad effects of the modern so called civilised high living, taking coffee,
tobacco, alcohol, wine, highly spiced seasoned food, irregular diet, overheating, indulging in sexual
excess, long continued mental exertion, sedentary habits, want of exercise, loss of sleep, taking aromatic
medicines, pills or exposure to cold and the like, headache with typical symptoms arise in the patient
calling for this great polychrest.

Sensation: Sensation as if the head would burst with congestion, heaviness and pressure.

Character of headache: Headache of gastric origin, congestive headache, with heaviness of head,
especially in the morning. The patient feels as if the head would burst, heaviness and pressure in the head.
Scalp is very sensitive to touch.

Modalities: Aggravation in the morning, by loss of sleep, touch and noise. Relief by vomiting.
warm application, in warm room, from sitting quiet and lying down in a dark room.

Concomitants: A sense of stupefaction and confusion as if intoxicated; vertigo as if the brain were
moving in a circle with a very transient loss of conciousness. Vertigo with obstruction of sight, dizziness
and humming in ears; nausea and vomiting.

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : Foetid ulceration in the mouth. Gums swollen and bleeding. FOETID AND SOUR TASTE
IN THE MOUTH IN MORNING. Anterior half of the tongue clean and the posterior coated white, furred,
cracked on edges, sometimes the tongue is, yellow, thick and ulcerated and cracked. Toothache worse
from cold and better from warmth.

Throat : Stitching pain in the throat, radiating to ears on swallowing. Ulceration extends to throat
from mouth, tingling sensation in uvula.

Stomach : Stomach troubles are caused by coffee, tobacco, alcohol, highly spiced seasoned food,
irregular diet, overeating, aromatic patent medicines, purgatives, etc. Sensation of weight and pain in the
stomach. Flatulence and pyrosis, tightness, sour or bitter eructation, nausea and vomiting, constant
nausea after eating especially in the moming. PATIENT FEELS “IF | COULD ONLY VOMIT, | WOULD
BE SO MUCH BETTER”. So he induces vomiting for relief. VERY HUNGRY, yet there is aversion to
food. Nux is one of the leading remedies for gastritis, gastralgia and dyspepsia. It can also be given as a
routine remedy for want of appetite. Stomach region is very sensitive tip touch and pressure. There is
also intolerance of tight bandage around the waist, must loosen clothes. Abdomen is bloated. Pressure an
hour or two after eating as from a stone, cannot use mind for 2 or 3 hours after food, vomiting of bile,
vomiting of pregnancy. Disordered stomach from overeating, taking alcohol, coffee, drugs, night
watching, high living,debauchery, from sedentary habits, etc. Constrictive cramp like pain in the stomach.
There may also be flatulent, distension with spasmodic colle which is aggravated by uncovering.

Enlarged liver in drunkards, stitching pain and soreness. Shortness of breath.caused by upward
Pressure of gas with ineffectual urge for stool and urine. Jhrobbing pain from hepatic abscess, gall stone

with jaundice.
