A

Aconite of chronic diseases (Alumina) As Aconite is frequently used in acute diseases,
similarly Alumina is frequently used in chronic diseases.

Aconite of the venous capillary system (Ham.v.) Hamamelis. V. acts upon venous system
of blood vessels as Aconite on the arteries (Ref. W; H. Burt - Physiological Materia
Medica).

Acute idiocy (Heil. N.) Utter foolishness or extreme mental inability.

African fever (Terebinth.) i.e. Black Water fever. A haemoglobinurie or malignant malaria
in which more than half of the circulating R.B.C. are haemolysed, characterised by the

passage of dark red or black urine.

After pains (Actaea, Caulo, Sabina, Sec. c.) Painful cramplike contractions of the uterus
occurring after childbirth,

Alae nasi (Ant. T. Brom. Lye. Medo) The wing of the nostril.

Alcoholic beverages (Ranunculus) Drinking liquor.

All gone (Anac, Puls, Sep.) Empty. Amaurosis (Tab) Partial or total blindness.

Amblyopia (Ruta) Dimness of vision, partial loss of sight without discoverable lesion in eye
structures or optic nerve.

American sick headache (Lac D., Sang.) Periodic hemicrania(Migrain).

Amiable (Ign.) Having a pleasant or friendly disposition.

Amorous (Ver. A) Inclined to love.

Anaesthetic vapors (Acetic Acid) Chloroform, Ethylene, Nitrous Oxide (N,O,) ete.
producing insensibility.

Analogue (Merc., Phyt., Plat., Eup.) Similar or parallel.

Anasarea (Apis, Ars. A., Dulc., Terebinth) A generalised infiltration of fluid into
subcutaneous connective tissue.

Aneurism (Fluor. A.) Local dilatation of a blood vessel, usually artery, due to local fault in
the wall through defect, disease or injury.

Angry ulcers (Phyt.) Inflammed & Painful ulcers.
Anguish (Ars. A., Heil. N.) Severe bodily or mental pain.
Anteversion (Lil.T.) Turning forward, denoting a malposition of this sort of the uterus.

Anthrax (Taran) A contagious disease of cattle, which may be trans; mitted to man by
inoculation, inhalation, and ingestion, causing malig-nant pustules.

Antitoxin (Variolinum) An agent which neutralizes a given toxin,

707
