328 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Respiratory symptoms :

Throat and cough : Sore throat. Liquid is more painful than solid sensation of a lump in throat,
not relieved by swallowing There is stitching pain in throat, extending to ears, worse during deglutition

The tonsils are inflammed and swollen. Coughing increases the desire to cough. Cough is more at
rest and less or nil during walking Dry, hollow, and spasmodic cough worse in the evening with little
expectoration. There is desire to take deep breath.

Hysterical cough and vomiting are cured by Ignatia.

Intermittent fever : Fever paroxysm comes with marked periodicity. Fever comes exactly at the
same hour every day. In fever, the face is red during chill; pale during heat; also there is great thirst
during chill stage of fever (Apis) and no thirst in heat stage; there is great yawning and stretching
before the attack of fever.

Modalities: Aggravation by covering and relieved by external heat.

Convulsion :
* Causation: From grief, anger, bad news, SUPPRESSED MENTAL FEELING. etc.
© Character: There is trembling and jerking when falling asleep: spasm of single muscle, limb or
whole body. Stiffness of the neck muscles with tingling in the limbs.
Menses :
Time: Too early.
Quantity: Too profuse.
Character of blood: Menstrual blood is black clotted with putrid offensive odour.
Concomitants: There is violent labour-like pain, followed by purulent corrosive leucorrhoea. Menses
may sometimes be suppressed by grief.
General modalities :

Aggravation: From tobacco, coffee, alcohol, contact, touch, motion, strong odour, mental emotion.
grief, anger and suppressed mental sufferings.

Amelioration: Warmth, hard pressure, swallowing, walking.

Relations :
Ignatia, bears the same relation to the diseases of women that Nux does to sanguine, bilious men.
Natrum mur., is the chronic of Ignatia in the mental plane.
Antidotes: Coffea, Cham,
Antidoted by: Puls., Am., Camphor, Cham., Cocc., Coffea.
Incompatible to: Coffea. Nux. v., Tuberculinum.
