{

Phosphoric Acid 473

Location: Headache in occiput and vertex.
Sensation: Sensation of a crushing weight on vertex.

Character of Headache: Headache usually spreads forward from the back side. There is crushing
weight on vertex, Headache of school girls from eye-strain or overuse of eyes; of students who grow

fast.

Modalities: Aggravation by least motion, noise especially music and relief from lying down (Bry.,
Gels., Silicea.).

Diarrhoea :
Diarrhoea may arise as a result of fear or during cholera time, or from acids.

Character; It is painless and non-debilitating; white or yellow, watery, passes involuntarily
with flatus.

Uro-genital system :
Causation: Diabetes melliuts or insipidus, sexual excess, onanism, shock, operation, etc.
Character of urine: Urine looks like milk, mixed with jelly-like bloody pieces, decomposes readily.

There is profuse urination at night. The urine is clear, watery, but it forms a white cloud at once
due to the presence of excessive phosphate caused by nerve waste. There is constant urging to urinate
or involuntary urination. Few drops of white gleety discharge occur in the morning.

For diabetes melitus of nervous orgin, Phosphoric acid can be employed as a successful remedy.

Onanism :

The patient is greatly, depressed by the culpability of the act. There are frequent and prof use
emissions, several times in one night, even after coitus. It is very much debilitating. The patient is sad.
abashed and despair of cure. This remedy may bring back hope in him.

Typhoid :
Phosphoric acid, is an excellent remedy for typhus or typhoid, showing peculiar characteristic
symptoms.

Character of typhoid: Phosphoric acid, is usually indicated in the SECOND AND THIRD WEEK of
typhoid.

There is COMPLETE APATHY AND INDIFFERENCE. The PATIENT IS LISTLESS. Indifferent to
the affairs of life; completely prostrated and stupefied with grief, indifferent to those things that used to
be of most interest to him.

The patient LIES LIKE A LOG; is insensible to happenings around him, He has stupid sleep from
which he may be aroused in full conscious state. If questioned, he answers slowly and correctly and again
falls into sleep.

The patient has muttering delirium; he is unintelligible; lies In a stuporots state or stupid sleep,
utterly regardless of surroundings. The patient trembles.

There may be intestinal haemorrhage as well as bledding from the nose. The blood is dark,
offensive and non-coagulable.

Meteoric distension of abdomen with a great deal of rumbling and gurgling. .

Along with typhoid, there may be diarrhoea too. Stool Is watery, white grayish and painless.
Involuntary stool with great debility.
