296 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Glonoine acts violently and suddenly in acute diseases especially of brain causing
fulness, tension, throbbing and bursting sensation. Its action is so local, so sudden,
so definite and torturing that it is impossible to forget Glonoine.

. Symptoms are WORSE IN THE SUN or exposure to sun’s rays.
Sensation of pulsation throughout the body.
Surging of blood to head and heart.

Bad effects of mental excitement, fright, fear, mechanical injuries hair cut and SUN
STROKE.

6. General weakness and depression from heat of sun or summer
7. Weakness and trembling of tongue, hands, legs and the entire body.
8. Ailments from : Sun, heat of fire, fear, fright, injury and hair-cut.

aR wb

PARTICULARS

Headfiche :

Character: From working under gas light, when heat falls on the head or WALKING IN THE SUN,
from heat of stove or hair cut during pregnancy and menopause.

Sensation: Head feels ENORMOUSLY LARGE as if the skull were too small for the brain and as if
skull were being lifted up.

Character of headache: Severe THROBBING, PULSATING type of headache. The patient holds
the head with both hands. There is intense pain. Sensation as if the head would burst; sometimes there
is great soreness in the head.

Heaviness of the head with rush of blood towards the head as if all the blood has gone towards the
head. SUNSTROKE and SUN HEADACHE—increases and decreases with the sun.

Headache in place of menses.

Modalities: Aggravation from shaking jar, stooping, lying down, SUN'S RAYS and while working
under the gas light.

Better by bending head backwards and from covering.

Apoplexy :

In threatened apoplexy with cerebral congestion or alternate congestion of the head and heart. The
brain feels too large, full, bursting, with rush of blood towards he head, blood seems to be pumped
upwards; throbs at every jar. Terrific shock in the head synchronous with the pulse. There is
throbbing sensation. The patient holds the head with both hands, cannot lie down, even the pillow seems
to beat.

With high blood pressure, there is violent palpitation. Throbbing in carotids, heart's action is slow.
In apoplexy when violent pressure keeps on and congestion, continues, If it is given, it will relieve the
pressure provided the symptoms agree.

Meningitis :
Causation: During the time of dentition.
