silicea 569

>

CONSTITUTION

Make-up of the body: Pale face with lean and thin body. Sickly appearance with dry

skin. Weak and lax musculature.

Temperament: Irritable and sanguine temperament.
Relation with heat and cold: EXTREMELY CHILLY patient.
Miasm: Silicea covers all the three miasms. Still it is predominantly anti-psoric

rather than anti-sycotic and anti-syphilitic.

Diathesis: Scrofulous diathesis,

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1.

Highly chilly patient. Wraps himself up with warm clothing even in hot summer
weather (Psorinum, Hepar sulph.).

. Bad effects of vaccination especially convulsion and suppuration (Thuja, Antim.

tart., Mezerium, Crot. hor).

3. Every little injury suppurates (Merc, sol., Hepar, Graphites, Petroleum).
4. It has got a wonderful CONTROL OVER THE SUPPURATIVE PROCESS,

10.

11.

14.
15.

16.

anywhere and everywhere in the body.

. Want of grit either moral or physical is well-marked.
. Constitution which suffers from deficient nutrition from defective assimilation.
. The patient is very sensitive to all impressions, especially noise and becomes

anxious therefrom.

. There may be vertigo on looking up; better by wrapping up warmly, and when lying

on left side.

. Headache starts at occiput, ascends to vertex and finally settles over the right eye

(Sang.—Left eye, Spigelia); relief from profuse urination and wrapping up warmly.
Obstinate constipation; stool hard and knotty. When PARTLY EXPELLED
RECEDES BACK (Thuja). Stool has to be removed mechanically (Calc. carb.,
Thuja).

Always there is constipation before, during and after menses (Diarrhoea before
menses—Ammon. carb., Bovista, Ver.alb.).

. Night-walking. The patient gets up while asleep, walks about and lies down again-

all quite unconsciously.

. Serofulous rachitic children with large head and open fontanelles and

sutures, much sweating about the head and distended abdomen.
Desire for cold drinks, cold food, ice cream. Wants to be magnetised.

Sweat of hands, toes, feet, axillae is VERY OFFENSIVE. Intolerable, sour, carrion-
like odour of feet, without perspiration and every evening.

Mind : The patient is very nervous and is of excitable temperament. There is lack
of stamina and he is very much afraid of failure; so much so that a really efficient
