216 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

It acts upon the nervous system, producing a condition of qeneral depression and
exhaustion and it inhibits enzyme action, thus retarding tissue metabolism. It also
destroys the oxygenating power of the blood; alters the quantity and quality of blood;
initiates haemorrhage; affects the vegetative system involving liver and spleen, producing
congestion, hyperaemia and jaundice. Above all, it has got the power to produce fever of
varying types, especially intermittent type.

CONSTITUTION

To put in one word the constitution of China is “PUMPED OUT” (according to Dr.
P.C. Paul of Calcutta) or “BROKEN DOWN” constitution from exhausting discharges and
loss of vital fluids and abuse of quinine.

Make-up of the body: Once robust, strong and healthy stout, swarthy person who has
become weak, debilitated and exhausted by loss of vital fluids such as haemorrhage,
diarrhoea, suppuration, lactation, etc.

Termparament: Nervous temperament.

Relation with heat and cold: Chilly patient.

Miasm: Psora is in the background.

Diathesis: Haemorrhagic diathesis.
GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Great tendency to PERIODICITY is well-marked throughout the remedy.

2. Profound debility from exhausting discharges and loss of vital fluids and
haemorrhage, etc. Great debility, trembling, “ aversion to exercise and very
sensitive to touch to pain, to draught of air.

3. Excessiue irritability and sensitiveness of the whole nervous system is one of the
prominent features of China.

. Dropsy, either generalised or localised, from anaemia, loss of vital, fluid or
haemorrhage is one of the criteria for China.

. Pains are aggravated by slightest touch, but are RELIEVED BY HARD PRESSURE.
. Shaking chill all over the body is well-marked.

. Debilitating sweat with noctural diarrhoeas is a peculiar characteristic of China.

. Disposition to haemorrhage from every orifice of the body.

. Painless nocturnal diarrhoea is found only in China.

10. Malaria cachexia, chronic fever with liver and spleen complaints.

11. After climacteric, there is PROFUSE HAEMORRHAGE, acute diseases often result
in dropsy, with ringing and buzzing sound in ears.

12. Desire for sour things, sour fruit, dainties, wine, cold things, coffee and highly
seasoned food.
Aversion to bread, meat, fatty things, warm food and exercise.

rn

Conta uw
