Secale Gornutum 557

Gastro-intestinal symptioms :

Abdomen : Abdomen is very sensitive to touch (Lach.). There is burning sensation all over the
abdomen, especially in the stomach. Tympanitic condition of the abdomen with immense flatulence is well

marked.

Stomach : There is unnatural ravenous appetite even with exhausting diarrhoea. The patient
craves for acids and lemonade; desires bread and undiluted wine. Aversion to food, drinks and heat.

There is unquenchable thirst for large quantities of very cold water. Constant eructation with bad
odour. There may be vomiting of bilious matter, mucus, dark brown, coffee ground fluid or all the food
and drink.

Diarrhoea : During diarrhoea, there is icy coldness of the parts; yet the patient does not like
covering. Intolerance of being covered with great exhaustion is well marked,

Charater of stool: Profuse, watery, painless, involuntary, stool passes with great force. Putrid stool
of olive green colour and stained with- blood. Anus remains wide open.

Cholera :
Causation : Summer weather, suppression of discharges, like sweat, etc.

During cholera there is icollapsed condition with COLD SKIN YET CANNOT BEAR TO BE
COVERED; EXTENSOR TYPE OF CRAMPS and very cold extremities. Along with profuse diarrhoea,
there is persistent vomiting.

Character of stool: Profuse, watery, foetid, brown, discharged with great force, very exhausting;
involuntary as though the anus remains wide open (Apis., Phos.).

Concomitants: Face is pale, pinched, ashy, sunken, hippocratic, drawn with blue rings around the
eyes.

Pulse: Small, rapid, contracted and often intermittent. There is unnatural ravenous appetite with
exhausting diarrhoea. Craving for acids and lemonade.

Modality: Aggravation from heat and amelioration from cold.
Urine :

Enuresis of old people is often treated with this remedy. Urine is pale, watery or bloody. There may
also be sometimes suppressed urine.

Menses :

Secale coor. is a good drug for menstrual troubles, having peculiar symptoms which are as follows:
Time: Irregularly regular.

Quantity: Copious.

Character of blood: Dark blood, continuous oozing of watery blood until the next period.

Concomitants: Menstrual colic, labour-like pain with coldness and intolerance of heat in scrawny,
feeble and cachectic woman.

All symptoms are aggravated just before menses.

Leucorrhoea :
May be greenish, brownish, and offensive.
