Antimonium Crudum 61

3. Disposition to abnormal growth of skin, e.g. warts, corns: THICh:cNED SKIN IN
ECZEMA.

Symptoms when reappear, change locality or side (Lac. Gan:, Tuberculinum).
Great desire for acids and pickles.

AVERSION TO COLD BATHING (Ammon carb., Sulphur).

. General relaxation and great lassitude.

. Alternate diarrhoea and constipation especially in old people.

CHILD CANNOT BEAR TO BE TOUCHED OR LOOKED AT.

10. Mind : Bad effects of disappointed love. Loathing of life. There is GREAT
SADNESS with weeping. Sentimental mood in the moonlight. Very peevish, angry
and fretful; cannot bear to be touched or looked at (in case of a child).

Does not wish to speak or to be spoken to.

Becomes angry at silly matters.

Great despair, sad and melancholic.

Wants to commit suicide by drowning.

Anxious; lachrymose mood and slightest thing affects her.

There is irresistible desire to talk in rhymes, poems or repeat verses.
Mental symptoms aggravate in moonlight.

11. Ailments from : Disappointed love, too much river or cold bathing, alcohol,
deranged digestion, acids, fat, fruits, suppressed eruption, overheating, overeating
and sunburn, extremes ofheat and cold.

PPAR as

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: From river bathing, Cold Bathing, taking cold, alcohol, deranged digestion, acids, fat,
fruits suppressed eruption.

Sensation: Congestive and throbbing headache.
Location: Over the entire head, especially at vertex.
Modality: Headache is relieved in the open air, during rest and after a warm bath.

Concomitants: Weakness of limbs, aversion to food from disordered stomach; vertigo with nausea
and occasiona! vorniting, congestion of blood to head resulting in nose-bleed

Mouth :
Cracks and fissures at the corners of mouth, Canker sores in the mouth,
A THICK MILKY WHITE COATING ON THE TONGUE is the red strand of remedy.

Throat :

Large quantities of mucous is hawked out from the posterior nares, Soreness in the throat, with a
sensation of plug in throat, constantly trying to swallow.
