Biochemic System of Medicine 659

“recommended for investigation” by this great teacher of our school. Several editions
were published in rapid succession, from which this historical sketch is mainly derived,
and following these appeared the translation of the twelfth German edition, by J. T.
O'Connor, M. D,, and one by M. Docetti Walker, considerably enlarged by the addition of
an appendix popularizing the Biochemic Method. Dr. Schussler, previous io his death,
which occurred early in 1898, published the 25th German edition, in which the
application of several of the remedies has been greatly enlarged and considerable new
matter added. This edition has just been translated into English.

Notwithstanding that Dr. Schussler denies in the later editions of his work all
connection with Homoeopathy, and insists that his method is not based upon the
homoeopathic law of cure, but upon physiologico-chemical processes that take place
within the organism, it is nevertheless true that the present wide adoption of the Tissue
Remedies in the treatment of disease is the fruit of the seed sown on homoepathic ground
as early as 1832, although its development was slow until Schussler gave it a wonderful
impetus by bringing physiological chemistry and physiological and petaolngiea facts to
bear on his therapeutic procedure

THE THEORY OF SCHUSSLER'S BIOCHEMIC SYSTEM OF MEDICINE

The idea upon which Biochemic Therapeutics is based is the physiological fact that
both the structure and vitality of the organs of the body are dependent upon certain
necessary quantities and proper apportionment of its inorganic constituents, These
remain after combustion of the tissues and form the ashes.

These inorganic constituents are, in a very real sense, the material basis of the
organs and tissues of the body, and are absolutely essential to their integrity of structure
and functional activity. According to Schussler’s theory, any disturbance in the molecular
motion of these cell salts in living tissues, caused by a deficiency in the requisite amount,
constitutes disease, which can be rectified and the requisite equilibrium re-established
by administering the same mineral salts in small quantities. This is supposed to be
brought about by virtue of the operation of chemical affinity in the domain of histology ;
and hence this therapeutic procedure is styled by Schussler the Biochemic method, and
stress is laid on the fact that it is in supposed harmony with well-known facts and laws
in physiological chemistry and allied sciences.

POUNDATION OF BIOCHEMIC SYSTEM OF MEDICINE

The foundation of Biochemistry was laid more than a century ago when Rudolph
Virchow, one of the foremost scientists of the day, discovered that the human body is
composed of an enormous number of tiny, living cells, each one made up of an
infinitesimal but perfectly balanced quantity of three classes of materials; water, organic
substances, inorganic substances.

Water and organic matter, such as sugar, albuminous and fatty substances make up the
greater portion of the body. The inorganic (mineral) elements, however, although present in
very much smaller quantities, are really vital elements; active workers which utilise the
organic substances in building the millions of cells of which the body is composed.

“™
