ih a.
pogo 527

2. Usually right sided affection e.g., right testes, extremeties.

3. All the symptoms are WORSE IN A WINDY, STORMY WEATHER, worse even
before the storm, especially an electrical storm (Nat. carb., Phos., Psorinum, Silicea,
Gels.).

4. Chilly patient; aggravation from a sudden change of weather and relief from
warmth in general.

5. Induration and swelling of testicles after gonorrhoea or rheumatic exposure.
6. Cannot get sleep or remain asleep unless the legs are crossed.

PARTICULARS

Toothache :

Causation: In every spring and fall; SHARP EAST WIND.

Character: There is violent jerking pain involving dental nerves from temple to lower jaw and chin
with swollen teeth.

¢ Aggravation : By cold and during a thunder-storm.
* Amelioration: By warmth and extemal heat.

Male genital organs :
Testes : Orchitis with swelling and induration of testicles.
Causation: From suppressed gonorrhoea.
Location: Right sided affection.
Sensation: Sensation in glands as if they were being, crushed.

Character of pain: Orchitis with much swelling in rheumatic patient. Drawing, tearing pain in
spermatic cord. There is swelling of testes with much pain, glands feel crushed, as if drown up.

Modalities :

* Aggravation: From taking cold, from sitting on a cold stone, from suppressed gonorrhoea.
before a storm especially an electric storm.

¢ Amelioration: From warmth and motion.

Rheumatism :

Causation: from cold, damp and WINDY WEATHER.
Location: Right side principally affected.
Sensation: Sore and bruised feeling,

Character of pain: It is a very useful remedy in gouty patient, who suffer rheumatic pains.

Acute inflammatory swelling of the joints. There Is drawing, tearing pains in all the limbs. The pain
sometimes WANDERS FROM ONE JOINT TO ANOTHER. There Is tearing, shooting pain, sore bruised
Pain, with stiffness of joints, neck and back,

Pain in dorsal region, extending to arm, pain In bone and periosteum, pain drives him out of bed.
Pain in the shoulder joint is so severe that the arm cannot be moved. The patient cannot sleep unless the
legs are crossed.
