“ Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Menses :
Delayed menses by mental emotion, from cold.

Time: Irregular and delayed.
Quantity: Profuse, scanty or suppressed.
Character of blood: coagulated, and very much offensive.
Modality:
* Aggravation of pain during the flow; more the flow, greater the pain.
* Concomitants: There is severe pain all through the period of flow; pain in ovarian region, across

pelvis, from hip to hip with great sensitiveness. With menses, there may also be chorea, hysteria or mania
with more rheumatic pains and palpitation of heart.

Pregnancy :

During pregnancy, there is nausea all the time with sleeplessness and sharp pain across the
abdomen from hip to hip; abortion, especially at the third month. When given during later months of
pregnancy, it shortens labour if symptoms correspond. In ladies who. have previously borne only dead
children, from no discoverable cause. Actaea should be given in daily dose of Ix potency for 2 months
before term.

Labour:

False labour like pain, which is sharp and lancinating, electric like pains in various parts from uterine
irritation, in uterine region from side to side. Shivering in the first stage of labour-Irregular type of pain
during labour with rigid os. No dilatation. Pain severe, spasmodic, difficult. Aggravation from least noise.

Prolapse :

Severe pain in the uterine region, darting from side to side, sharp, lancinating, electric like pain.
Bearing down sensation with relaxation of the parts. Bearing down sensation is accompanied with other
general symptoms.

Heart:

Irregular action of the heart with fluttering and quick pulse. Sensation as if heart is enlarged with
sore feeling in the region of heart. Heart's action ceases suddenly with impending suffocation and
palpitation.

Modality:
* Aggravation: From least motion and during menses.
* Concomitant: Heart troubles are from reflex symptoms of uterus and ovaries.

Rheumatism: Being one of the good remedies for muscular rheumatism, it especially affects the
bellies of muscles of neck and back. The joints commonly affected are those of lumbo-sacral region and
big joints.

Sensation: Excessive muscular soreness is felt. There \s uneasiness, restlessness, aching in the limbs
with pain in lumbar and sacral region down thigh. There is stiffness, lameness, contracted feeling with

stitching and cramping pain.
Modality:
e Aggravation: From using arms in sewing, type writing, piano-playing, from cold, damp weather

and during menses.
* Concomitant: Rheumatism alternates with mental symptoms.

