290 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

3. As is common to all acids, PROFOUND WEAKNESS AND DEBILITY run through
the whole drug.

4. The pain of Fluoric acid is very characteristic. It is LIGHTNING like and on a small

spot. Pain comes suddenly, lasts for a short time and disappears quickly. (Bell. Mag.
phos.)

5. The patient has increased ability to exercise without danger. This is a very striking
. and unique characteristic symptom of Fluoric acid.

6. The patient is less affected by excessive heat of summer or cold of winter. This too
is a very peculiar sypnptom of this valuable remedy.

7. For vicious bone diseases, in necrosis, caries, fistulous openings, fistula lachrymalis
and fistula in ano, in calcareous degeneration, etc. Fluoric acid is infallible.

8. There is general aggravation by warmth and relief by cold application.
9. Ailment from : Syphilis, abuse of Mercury or Silica.

PARTICULARS

Ulcer :

Ulcer of syphilitic or psoric origin are very successfully treated by Fluoric acid.
Old cicatrices become red and round edged and threaten to become open ulcers.

Varicose veins and ulcers in obstinate and long standing cases; especially in women who have borne
many children, are admirably dealt with by Fluoric acid.

The ulcers have red edges and vesiciles; decubitus, from which copious offensive and acrid discharge
comes out, with violent lightning like pain. The pain is confined to a small spot; the Pains are
aggravated by warmth and relieved by cold.

All caries and necrosis, especially of long bones whether psoric, or syphilitic or caused by abuse of
Mercury or Silica, it matters little, can be satisfactorily tackled by Fluoric acid.

In the case of naevus of children and capillary aneurysm, Fluoric acid can be thought of as an
effective remedy to give complete relief.

Furthermore, for the exostosis of long bones or bones of face, rapid caries of teeth, fistula
dentalis or lachrymalis. Flouric acid is an infallible remedy.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: By warmth.
Amelioration: By cold application.

Relations :

Complementary to: Silicea and Coca.
Followed by: Sulph., Nit. ac.
It follows: Sil. as Sil. follows Puls.
