580 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

1.

2.

3.

4.
5.

6.
‘2
8.

9.

10.

11.

Pain begins lightly and increases gradually to the highest point and then gradually
declines-inihe same manner as it appeared (platina, Syphilinum).

There is GREAT DEBILITY and profound weakness which is the keynote of
Stannum. It is marked both mentally and bodily. The chest is so weak as to make
talking difficult, if not impossible. The patient is so weak that she drops into a chair
instead of sitting down.

Feels weak and faints especially when going downstairs (Borax, Chamomilla). Can
go up well enough (rev. Calc. carb., lodum)
Nausea and vomiting from the odour of cooking food (Arsenic, Colchicum, Sepia).

Empty, sinking all-gone sensation in chest and stomach is yet another grand
feature of Stannum.

Sweetish and salty expectoration and taste in mouth.
The patient experiences very debilitating sweat after 4 a.m.

The patient is sad, despondent, feels like crying all the time, but crying makes her
worse.

“Yellowishness” of Stannum secretions is worth noting, e.g. in leucorrhoea, sputa,
etc.

Mind : Mentally the patient is very much sad and despondent. She manifests great
sadness, a strong disinclination to talk and pronounced aversion to the company of
men. She is anxious, weak and irritable.

Disposition to weep. She fells like crying all the time; can cryat any time, but crying
makes her worse.

There is continued restlessness with anxiety.

Her distress of mind ceases as soon as menses begin to flow. These mental
symptoms are caused by emotion, fright, etc.

Ailments, from : Emotion, fright, masturbation, dentition, worm and over using
voice.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache is caused by fright; emotion, sexual excess, etc.

Location: Headache over one or the other eye; mostly of the leftside.

Sensation: Feels as if the head would burst from Inward blows, as if constricted by a hand.
Character of pain: Aching pain in temples and forehead. Violent blowing, beating pain begins

lightly and increases gradually to the highest point and then gradually declines.

Modality:
* Aggravation from motion, from 10 a.m. to 3 or 5 p.m.
¢ Amelioration by hard pressure.
