um Metallicum
stan 581

Abdomen :

There is colic in abdomen.
Location; Around the navel.
Sensation: Empty feeling in the abdomen and chest.

Character of pain; Cramp like-pain; begins lightly and increases, gradually to the highest point and
then gradually declines.

There is nausea and vomiting from the odour of cooking food.
Modalities:
¢ Aggravation: From drinking anything warm.
¢ Amelioration: By hard pressure and by lying on abdomen, across the kness.

Respiratory Symptoms :
Cough :
Location: Left side of the chest is predominantly affected.

Sensation: Empty all-gone senation in the chest. There is profound weakness in the chest
accompanied by soreness in the chest.

Character of pain: Stitching pain in the left side with oppressive and short respiration.

There is rawness and soreness in larynx, and trachea with smarting sensation all the way down
when coughing. The pain may begin lightly and increases gradually to the highest point and
then subsides and disappears gradually in the same manner as it appeared.

Character of cough: Deep, hollow, shattering, strangling concussive cough in paroxysms of
three (Cup. met.). Cough in fatiguing paroxysms with a hoarse weak sound.

Character of sputa: There is accumulation of great quantity of mucus in trachea, easily thrown
off by coughing. Expectoration of profuse white mucus like white of an egg. Yellow, green pus, with
sweetish, salty taste in the mouth during the day.

There is inexpressible weakness in the chest. She is so weakihat she is unable to talk,
Modalities:

* Aggravation: From talking, singing, laughing, lying on right side, drinking anything warm.
* Amelioration: From expectoration and hard pressure.
Hoarseness :

Causation: Due to paralytic weakness.
Sensation: Weakness is also manifested in the voice.

Character: Hoarseness with loss of voice; vocal cord wilhnot respand; talking makes him feel weak.
There is deep, hollow and husky voice.

Modalities: Worse from using the voice and better by coughing. Expectoration relieyes hoarseness.

Pulmonary tuberculosis :

Stannum, useful in warding off phthisis, is also a wonderful palliative in that disease. There is history
of increasing weakness, cachexia, catarrhal condition and debiltating sweat with hectic fever. The body is
weak, sallow countenance and pale face. (
