504 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

PATHOGENESIS

It produces irritation and catarrhal inflammation of mucous membrane, HAVING
THICK BLAND, GREEN YELLOWISH DISCHARGES, venous engorgement and
congestion. It causes contractive pains in uterus. Pulsatilla also causes burning
sensation on palms and soles and tongue. Furthermore, it produces arthritic or
rheumatic inflammation. The veins seem to lose their vital resistance under the
influence of Pulsatilla so that varicosis occurs, especially of rectum. In eyes it acts on lids
producing inflammation and catarrhal discharge. From the ear too, there is purulent
discharge.

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Usually ladies who are fair and beautiful-looking but inclined to
be fleshy with fine hair and blue eyes, soft and lax muscels, anaemic and chlorbtic with
pale face at puberty. Pulsatilla patient can be compared to the race of SHEEP. as Antim
crud. to SWINE and Arsenic to RACE of HORSE

Temperament: Full of tears, slow, phelgmatic and indecisive.

Relation with heat and cold: It is controversial point whether Pulsatilla is a hot or
chilly drug. Dr. KENT says that there is a pendulum like action between heat and cold
relation amongst complementary remedies.

TYLER BOERICKE AND ALLEN say that it is a chilly drug. KENT says that it is a
hot blooded patient. But after using the remedy for some time, it will be noticed that the
patient goes to the other extreme and becomes chilly or hot as the case may be.

Miasm: Psoric and sycotic miasms are in the background.

1. Changeability of symptoms : Such as, the pain shifts from one joint to another,
no two stools are alike, no two chills are similar. The whole case will appear as if
mixed up having no head or tail when the patient relates her complaints. Mental
condition changes rapidly. In short it has ever changing character of symptoms.

2. Weeping disposition : The patient weeps easily. It is almost impossible to detail
her ailments without weeping.

3. Chilliness : The patient has constant chilliness, but aversion to cover. The patient
likes open air. Feels uncomfortable and suffocated in a closed, stuffy and heated
room.

4. Pain : The pain shows the following characteristics.
(a) Pain comes gradually and disappears suddenly or pain appears suddenly and
goes gradually.
(b) Pains are accompanied by Chilliness. Greater the pain more severe is the chill.
(c) Pain is SHIFTING IN CHARACTER, moves from one joint to another and from
one part to the other.

(d) Pain is relieved by pressure, lying on affected side and by cold application. Pain
is aggravated from hot application and lying on painless side.
