[a

sepia 565

=

There is great avertion to food, particularly to meat and fat, to bread, especially during pregnancy; to
milk, which causes diarrhoea (Nat, carb.),

Flatulent abdomen with headache.

The liver is sore and painful, relieved by lying on right side. There are many brown spots on
abdomen.

Feeling of relaxation and hearing down in abdomen. There is also pressure in abdomen as though
the contents would issue through the genital organs. Feeling of weight in epigastrium, distension and
rumbling in abdomen, rolling in abdomen as if something alive were moving (Thuja, Crocus, Ver. alb.,

Sulphur).
Rectum and stool :
There is bleeding at stool and fulnes of rectum.
Constipation: Stool is large and hard; sensation of a ball in the rectum.
The patient cannot strain due to gret tenesmus and pain which shoots upwards.

Character of stool: Stool is dark brown in round balls, glued together with mucus and even soft
stool is voided with great difficulty. There is almost constant oozing of mucus from the anus. There may
also be infantile diarrhoea, which is worse from boiled milk in children.

During pregnancy, there may be obstinate constipation, slow and difficult discharge even of soft stool.
with excessive straining.

Sensation of a weight or ball felt in anus, not relieved by passing stool.

Urine :

In the urine, sand may be present. The charater of the sand is red, adhesive or clay coloured.
In children there is involuntary urination during the first sleep (Kreosote).

Chronic cystitis with slow micturition can be successfully treated with Sepia. While passing urine.
there is bearing down sensation. Urine is so offensive that it must be remoued from the room at
once.

There may also be gleet which is painless, yellowish and staining the linen; external meatus glued
together in the morning. Gleet of long standing. Sexual organs are weak and exhausted.

Female Genital Organs :

Menses : All kinds of menstrual irregularities are found in Sepia i.e. early, scanty, profuse,
amenorrhoea, menorrhagia and metrorrhagia, When it is associated with other uterine and genital
symptoms and the typical Sepia picture, Sepia will cure the case.

The first menses: Too late or too early.

Character of blood: Irregular in every form, dark flow in the morning.

Quantity: Too scanty and sometimes too profuse and occasionally very feeble and scanty.
Duration: Shows varying degree of irregularities.

Concomitants; With menses there is bearing down sensation Pain comes from back to front,

especially in those ladies who are highly chilly having a weeping disposition; indifferent and apathetic with
“tell-tale-face.”

Leucorrhoea : Yellowish, greenish with much Itching, acrid leucorrhoea before menses, causes
Soreness of pudenda.
