210 Text Book ot MATERIA MEDICA

—

2. Whatever be the nervous manifestation, whether it gets the name of epilepsy,
chorea, hysteria, or eclampsia, etc., from any cause such as epileptic, hysterical,
gastric, worms, suppressed eruption, etc., it matters little, the first drug which we
ean think of is Cicuta virosa, provided in most cases the ATTACK IS VERY
VIOLENT (usually) accompanied by Joss of consciousness and renewed by slightest
touch, noise odour, etc. and are relieved by rest and in a dark room.

3. During convulsive attack, there is FRIGHTFUL DISTORTION of the face, limbs or
of the whole body.

4. Puerperal convulsion with frequent suspension of breath.

5. In children during dentition or from worms, there is spasm or convulsion of clonic
or tonic type.

6. Abnormal appetite and craving for indigestible things such as chalk, coal charcoal,
etc. (Alumina, Cina, Nit. Acid, Calc. carb.).

7. Eczema with no itching. The exudation from eczema forms into a hard lemon-
coloured crust.

8. Brain disease from suppressed eruption.
9. When reading, the letters seem to turn, go up and down or disappear completely.
10. Ailments from : Nervous irritation, worms, suppressed eruption, shock and injury.

PARTICULARS

Convulsion :

Cicuta virosa is especially suited to women who are subject to epileptic or choreic convulsion or
spasm of children during dentition period or from worms.

During convulsion, the attack is VIOLENT. There is very FRIGHTFUL DISTORTION of face, limbs
or of the whole body. The patient loses consciousness. Opisthotonos is a general feature (Natrum sulph..
Veratrurh vir.). The epileptic attack is renewed from SLIGHTEST TOUCH, NOISE OR JAR AND
MOTION.

Epilepsy is associated with swelling of stomach as from violent spasm of diaphragm. The patient
screams. The face may be red or bluish. Consciousness is lost, jaws are locked with distortion of limbs
and face, BEYOND RECOGNITON. The attack is frequently at night; recurring first at short intervals and
then at long intervals.

Guernsey says, “think of this remedy for convulsion which are excessively violent— whether
epileptic, cataleptic clonic or tonic eclampsia.”

According to Nash, .it it another remedy characterised by Its . excessively VIOLENT convulsions, The
body is drawn into all sorts of odd shapes and violent contortions, but one of the most invariable
symptoms is bending of head, neck and spine backwards (opisthotonos). It is on this account that it was
tried for cerebro-spinal meningitis. Nash also thinks that it is as near a specific for this disease as there
can be.

Kent says, that this remedy is of most extreme interest because of its convulsive tendency. It puts the
whole nervous system into such a state of increased irritability that pressure on a part causes convulsion.
