Glonoine 297

Location: In the cerebro-spinal region.
Sensation: As if the neck is drawn back.

Character: Convulsion of children from cerebral congestion. The face and eyes are intensely
congested and hot. Violent congestion in brain and spinal cord with convulsion throughout the limbs; the
neck and whole body drawn backwards. Opisthotonos.

Modality:

¢ Aggravation: Warm room increases convulsion. Children get sick in the evening, when sitting
before an open coal fire or falling asleep there.

Comparison :
Glonoine differs from Belladonna, although both of them have many symptoms in common.

In Bell., the circulation within the cranium is excited because the brain is irritated; but in Glon., the
brain is irritated because the cirulation is excited.

The pains of Bell, are sudden in onset and sudden to leave; those of Glon., are even more so.

According to Nash, Glonoine is better adapted to the first congestive stage of inflammatory diseases
of brain. Bell, goes further and may still be the remedy after the inflammatory stage is fully established.
Farrington, too emphasizes that Bell. and Glon. meet the congestion and inflammation of brain. But in
Bell., cri encephalige is well marked while it is less marked in Glon. Bell. is worse by bending backwards
while Glon. is better by it. In both, the head feels enormously large. Bell. is better by uncovering head
while Glon. is better by covering it.

Menopausal Syndrome :

Flush of heat at the climacteric age. Intense congestion of brain, from delayed or suppressed menses.
The congestion may also come on during the menstrual period. If uterine haemorrhage stops suddenly,
then thereis violent headache as if all the blood rushes to the head. Headache may appear in place of
menses.

General Modalities :

Aggravation : In the sun, exposure to SUN'S RAYS, gas-light; overheating, jar, stooping,
ascending, touch of hat, having the hair cut.

Relations :
Compare: Belladonna and Gelsemium,
Antidoted by: Aconite, Camphor, Nux vom,
