CALCAREA PHOSPHORICA

Synonym : Common Names:
Calcium Phosphate Phosphate of lime

Cale. phos is a nutritive
salt absolutely essential to the
proper growth and nutrition of
the body. It promotes cell
growth, supplying the first
basis for the new tissue, hence
necessary to initiate growth.

This salt is found in the
blood plasma and corpuscles,
saliva, gastric juice, bones and
other connective tissue, teeth,
milk , ete.

This salt works with albumen, carries it to bone tissue or to any part of the body
where it may be needed. It uses albumen as a cement to build up bone structure. Thus it
gives solidity to the bones.

Bone is fifty-seven per cent, phosphate of lime, the remainder gelatine; an
albuminous, gluey substance, carbonate of soda, magnesium phosphate and sodium
chloride. Without the lime phosphate no bone can be made. It is the nutritive salt for the
periostium and through it for bones.

phosphorica

;

Calcarea phos also supplies new blood cells, thus becoming the first remedy in
anemia. Without Cale Phos there could be no blood coagulation.

Calcium phosphate is found in gastric juice, and a lack of the proper balance is
frequently the cause of indigestion.

Conditions called rheumatism are sometimes due to a deficiency of the cell-salt. It is
well known to Biochemists that a proper balance of sodium phosphate is required to
prevent an acid condition from prevailing, and under certain conditions, when calcium
phosphate for any reason is not present in proper quantities, the affinities draw upon
sodium phosphate in an endeavor to supply the lack, and thus a deficiency in the alkaline
salts ensue, which allows an acid condition to prevail, i.e, rheumatism.

Calcium phosphate is an auxiliary to the therapeutical effects of magnesium
phosphate, as it more nearly resembles that salt than any other. When Magnes. phos. is
clearly indicated, and does not restore the normal condition in a reasonable length of
time, Calc. phos. should be given, for it is quite certain that it has been drawn on from
the blood to assist the work of Magnes. phos., hence the deficiency in the lime-salt.

