Bovista 133

6. Menstrual flow only at night (Mag. carb., Kreosote).

7. Diarrhoea before and during menses (Ammon carb, Ver. alb.).

8. Intolerable itching at tip of coccyx, must scratch till part becomes raw and sore.
9. In chronic urticaria when Rhus tox., seems indicated but fails to cure.

PARTICULARS

Menses :
In menorrhagia and metrorrhagia. Bovista is infallible.
Time: Too early or occasional show every few days between periods.
Character of blood: Dark and clotted.

Pain :
Painful bearing down sensation. There is occasional show of menstrual blood every few days between
periods with intolerance of tight clothing around the waist.

Modality: Aggravation of flow only at night, not in the day time. (Mag. carb., Kreos., Ver. alb.—
rev, of Cactus, Caust., Lil.).

Concomitant: Diarrhoea before and during menses.

Leucorrhoea :
It has pronounced leucorrhoea.
Time: Leucorrhoea ten days after menses (Borax, Conium).

Character: Very much acrid; thick, stringy, tenacious; the discharge may be like white of an egg or
yellowish, green with soreness of vulva.

Skin :
Unhealthy skin. The eruptions may be either dry or moist, with thick crust formed by very thick,

tough, stringy and tenacious discharges from the eruptions.

Urticaria on excitement: Urticaria covers nearly the whole body from exertion. There is intense
itching at the tip of coceyx, scratches until it bleeds, still there is no relief. Usually there is deep impression
on fingers, from using blunt instruments, scissors, knife, etc.

Extremities :

There is great weakness of all joints, clumsiness, weariness of hand and feet, drops things from hand,
objects fall from powerless hands. The patient drops cups and various other objects and breaks them
constantly in spite of great carefulness and firm determination not to do so, This is due to weariness and
weakness of joints.

Relations :

Bovista antidotes tar application; suffocation from gas.

In chronic urticaria when Rhus tox. seems indicated but falls to cure.
Antidoted by: Camphor.

Antidotes to; Effects of tar applied locally.

Followed well by: Gale., Rhus tox., Sepia.
