Carbo Vegetabilis 183

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Persons of advanced age, women at turn of life; prematurely old
people. Cachectic persons, young or old. The face is puffy, bluish, pale and hippocratic
with cold sweat.

Temperament: Sanguine temperament.

Relation with heat and cold: Hot patient. Though the body is cold to touch, the
patient WANTS constantly to be FANNED RAPIDLY AND FROM NEAR.

Miasm: It is a powerful anti-psoric remedy.

Diathesis: HAEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. Passive haemorrhage of black or dark
blood from every orifice of the body e.g. bleeding from lung, bladder, uterus, stomach,
ulcers, etc. resulting from weakened circulation, Haemorrhagic tendency runs through

the whole remedy.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Exhausted vitality from loss of vital fluid.

2. The surface of the body is COLD TO TOUCH, especially from knee to feet. The
pulse is intermittent, thready and imperceptible.

3. Weak Digestion, SIMPLE FOOD DISAGREES causing excessive flatulence;
abdomen is full to bursting point especially on the upper part; aggravation from
least food and relief from eructation and on passing flatus. It is one of Nash’s Trio
of tympanitic and flatulent drugs (others being Lyco. and China).

4. In the last stage of any disease with copious cold sweat, cold breath, cold tongue,
voice lost, this remedy may save a life.

5. WANTS TO BE FANNED RAPIDLY AND FROM A CLOSE DISTANCE in nearly
every complaint.

6. Wants clothing loose around the abdomen (Lach. and Bovista).

7. The patient craves things which makes him sick. Old toppers crave whisky or
brandy.

8. Hoarseness aggravated in the evening (Aconite, Phos. and Rumex).

9. Sysmptoms of imperfect oxidation, resulting from deficient capillary circulation,
causing blueness of skin and coldness of extremities.

10. Constant sour and rancid eructation.

11. Mind : Slowness of thought and weakness of memory, dislikes darkness and fears
ghosts.

12. Ailments from ; Loss of vital fluid, mercury, salt, salted meat or fish and from
abuse of quinine, especially suppressed chill and fever; bad effects of long ago
injury, persons who have never fully recovered from the bad effects of some
previous illness.
