Kali Carbonicum 345

Miasm: It is a great anti-psoric remedy.
Diathesis: Tubercular diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. The patient is very much OVERSENSITIVE TO TOUCH; starts when touched ever
so lightly, especially on THE feet.

2. Pains are stitching, darting, Worse during rest and lying on affected side (rev.

Bryonia).

8. Bag-like swelling between the upper eye-lids and eyebrows.

4. Early morning aggravation. is very characteristic particularly between 2 to 4 a.m.
(Asthma and cough).

5. Backache accompanies all the complaints. It is of a constant nature; with a sensation
as if the back and legs would give out any time.

6. Great debility, So much so that she drops herself into a chair or throws herself on
the bed completely exhausted.

7. Sitting up, leaning forward or rocking constantly, relieves the chest affections,
especially asthma.

8. Lastly, to conclude, quoted below is what Farrington states. “Sweat, backache and
weakness as a combination are not found under any other remedy.

9. Mind : There is great aversion to being alone (Bismuth, Arsenic, Lycopodium.
Stramonium—desires to be alone, Gels. Ignatia, Nat.mur., Nux vomica, Sepia).
Alternating mood with irritability. Obstinate. Hypersensitive to pain. Anxiety arising
from chest. Despondent and afraid of imaginary things.

10. Ailments from : Exposure to cold, over-strain, sexual excess, icecream and iced-
water.
PARTICULARS
Headache :

Causation: Headache from exposure to cold, riding in cold wind and sexual excess.
Location: Usually in both the temples and occipital region.
Sensation: Sensation of loose feeling in the head.

Character of headache: Stitching pain in temples and-oeciput, congested and heavy. Attack on
one side at a time.

Modalities: Aggravation by riding in a carriage, sexual excess and lying on painful side.
Relieved by warm application and by moving.
Concomitants: Yawning during headache; nausea; great dryness of hair; hair falls out.

Eye:

There is stitching pain in the eyes; lids stick together in the morning. BAG-LIKE SWEELING OF
UPPER EYELIDS. Swelling of glabella. Weak sight from excessive sexual indulgence.
