r

podophyllum 497

There is piles from constipation, with prolapse ani.
Concomitants: Constipation alternates with diarrhoea.

Diarrhoea :
Causation: Diarrhoea after eating fruits, summer and during dentition.

Time: Diarrhoea begins early in the morning, continues till the forenoon and. is followed by natural
stool in the evening.

Sensation: This diarrhoea is accompanied by a sensation of weakness or sinking in the abdomen or
rectum.

Before stool: Loud gurgling in the abdomen with gripping colic Great weakness in the abdomen
(Aloe, after stool).

During stool: Great heat and pajn in the anus with prolapsus ani.
After stool: There is great weakness and exhaustion.

Character of stool; It is PAINLESS, PROFUSE. PUTRID, POLYCHROMATIC (multi-coloured),
PROLAPSUS ANI with stool which GUSHES OUT (Crot. tig., Thuja).

The stool may be chalk-like, jelly-like undigested with yellow meal-like sediment.
There may be prolapse of rectum with stool.

Modality: Aggravation: In early morning, while bathing, in hot summer weather, after taking acidic
fruits and drinks.

Concomitants: Headache alternates with diarrhoea. Child presses the gums together, always rubs
the liver region with hands and there is thirst for large quantity of cold water.
Liver :

Podophyllum is pre-eminently a liver remedy especially in jaundice and chronic hepatitis.

There is dull aching pain in the liver region.

Sensation: Great fulness, soreness with stitching pain in the epigastrium; worse from coughing.

Character of pain: Acute burning pain in liver region. There is -our regurgitation of food with sour
and acid eructation, heart-burn, nausea and profuse bilious vomiting and diarrhoea. There is bitter taste
in mouth.

Modalities: Better: by rubbing and shaking the liver region. Aggravation at night.
Cholera :
Podophyllum is indicated in cholera infantum and cholera morbus.

Time: In the later part of night, especially about 3-4 a.m.

Character of stool: Painless cholera morbus with profuse diarrhoea and vomitting. The stool is
watery, profuse, offensive, and jelly-like.

Diarrhoea preceded by gripping colic. Profuse vomiting Is another characteristic.
During cholera, there Is violent cramp in feet, calf muscles and thigh.

After the attack, there is great prostration and exhaustion. The tongue is large, flabby with imprint of
teeth,
