316 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Relation with heat and cold: Not so well marked.
Miasm: It covers all the three miasms viz. Psora, Syphilis and Sycosis.
Diathesis: Cancerous diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Catarrhal condition and diseases- of various parts which are characterised by
profuse, thick “YELLOWISH” ROPY AND STRINGY DISCHARGE from mucous
membrane such as nose, throat, stomach, urethra, uterus, etc., (Kali bich., Bovista),

2. Cachectic or malignant dyscrasia with derangement of gastric and hepatic functions
in persons broken down by excessive use of alcohol.

8. Cancer and pre-cancerous state, ulceration has taken place when pain is the
principal symptom. Pains are knife like, sharp and cutting.

4. Cancers are hard and adherent, skin mottled and parched. Nipple retracted (Sars.

5. Tongue large and flabby; shows imprint of teeth (Merc.sol., Chel., Podo.). Yellowish
white in colour.

6. Constant empty aching “GONE FEELING” at stomach is a grand characteristic of
Hydrastis.

7. Constipation is also a leading feature of Hydrastis. With constipation, there is
constant pain in head and bad taste in mouth.

8. Leucorrhoea is ropy, thick, viscid and yellowish, hanging from os in long strings
(Kali-bich., Bovista), with pruitus vulvae.

9. Profuse perspiration with unhealthy odour, especially in axillae and groin.

10. Intense backache is yet another great symptoms of this remedy.

11. Mind : Depressed mind due to prolonged suffering, weakness and debility. The
patient ts sure of his death and he desries and prefers to die.

12. Ailments from : Abuse of mercury, chlorate of potash, alcoholism, ailments caused
by syphilis and gonorrhoea.

PARTICULARS

Stomach :
Caused by alcoholism.
Sensation: Empty sinking feeling in the epigastrium.

Character: There is burning pain in stomach, with no appetite, weak digestion, atonic dyspepsia
and catarrhal condition. Nearly all food cause disorder of stomach, particularly bread and vegetables.
Enipty faint feeling is stomach with loathing of food; great weakness and prostration. Feeling of weight
in stomach long after taking food, with pulsation in the epigastrium. Chronic gastric ulcer or cancer with

burning pain.
Modality; Aggravation from food, particularly bread and vegetables.

Concomitants: Sour and yellowish, stringy vomiting, bitter taste in mouth. Dull frontal headache and
fulness of eyes.
