puta Graveolens 535

2. Scrofulous exostosis after injury resulting in irregular growth of periosteum and
bone with sore, lame bruised sensation all over the place.

3. Sprains and dislocation as well as fractures of bones come under the domain of this
remedy.

4, Lameness and soreness of wrists and ankles after sprain.

5. All parts of the body upon which the patient lies feel lame and bruised (Bapt., Pyro.,
Ham.).

6. The patient is physically very much restless and tosses and turns in bed to get relief
(Rhus tox.).

7. Blow over the eyes resulting in ecchymosis or after using eyes for fine works and
straning resulting in blurred vision and aching in the eyes.

8. Prolapse of rectum immediately on ATTEMPTING TO EVACUATE THE
BOWEL.

9. Constant feeling of fulness in the urinary bladder even AFTER URINATION.

10. Flat warts on the palms of hand with sore, lame, bruised feeling.
11. Backache relieved by lying flat on the back.

12. Ruta is worse from cold and wet and relieved by motion.
13. Ailments from : Mechanical injuries, bruises, sprains, straining the eyes etc.

PARTICULARS

Eyes :
Causation: Eye troubles are caused by mechanical injuries and overstrain of ocular muscles.

Character of pain: There is severe aching in and over the eyes, with blurred vision as if they had
been strained; after fine work, watch making, engraving or looking intensely. AMBLYOP1A AND
ASTHENOPIA from over strain of eyes or anomalies of refraction, from overuse in bad light, fine sewing.
over-reading at night in dimlight. Consequently there is misty feeling before the eyes, with dim vision.
diplopia (Gels. Syphilinum), with complete obscuration of sight at a distance. Eyes burn, ache.red. feel
strained and hot like fire with spasm of lower lids.

Injury :

As a result of mechanical injuries, sprain, bruised injuries, fall or blow, etc. there may
be SCROFULOUS EXOSTOSIS, SPRAINS, PERIOSTITIS, ERYSIPELAS, FRACTURES AND
DISLOCATION. There is bruised, lame and sore feeling all over the body which is worse in the limbs and
joints.

All parts of the body upon which the patient lies are painful as if bruised (Bapt., Phyto., Nux mos..
Ham.). Due to the intolerable pain, the patient is very much restless and, therefore, changes position quite
frequently when lying. Lameness after sprain, especially of WRISTS AND ANKLES.

Phthisis after mechanical injuries of chest is also successfully treated by this remedy.

Quite often following mechanical injuries, constipation from inactivity or Inypaction may also be dealt
With by this drug.
