324 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

PARTICULARS

Injury :
Hypericum is an excellent remedy for injuries involving NERVES, the symptoms of which are as
follows:

Causation: Injuries are caused by mechanical affections of spinal cord, bad effects of spinal
concussion, pains after a fall on coccyx.

Punctured, incised or lacerated wounds, whidh are very sore and painful.
Injuries from nails, needles, rat-bites, with severe pain as from splinters.

Injuries of parts which are RICH IN SENTIENT NERVES, such, as fingers, toes, matrices of nails,
palms and soles, having intolerable pain, indicating that nerve are severely involved.

Nervous depression following wounds or surgical operation.
It also removes bad effects of shock, fright or mesmerism.

Hypericum is capable of modifying and sometimes arresting ulceration and sloughing (Calendula);
crushed and smashed finger tips or tetanus after traumatic injuries.

Hypericum also can preserve the integrity of a torn and lacerated member when it is almost entirely
separated from the body.

Convulsion and spasm after injury, blow or concussion, especially of head.

Excessive pain and.soreness of the affected parts. Violent pain and inability to walk or stoop. Feeling
of weakness and trembling of all the limbs and numbness and cramping feeling.

Spine is very sensitive to touch after a fall; slight touch of arms or neck causes severe pain and the
patient screams and cries with pajn.

Headache :

There is severe headache after a fall upon coccyx. During headache, there is sensation as if being
lifted up high into the air and consequently there is a great anxiety of falling from the height.
Vertigo :

Vertigo with sensation as if the head suddenly became elongated; especially at night with urging to
urinate.

For bunions and corns (Antim crud., Ran. bulb.), with severe excruciating pain, showing involvement
of nerves, Hypericum is a gret remedy.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: In cold dampness; in fog, in a closed room, least exposure, touch.
Amelioration: Bending head backwards,

Relations :
Compare: Arnica, Calendula, Ruta, Staph.
In wounds where formerly Aconite and Arnica were given alternately, Hypericum cures.
Antidoted by: Arsenic.
Antidotes: Sulphur.
