666 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

10.

blood vessels. Aneurism at an early stage may be reduced or kept in check by this
remedy. Dilatation of the heart with palpitation. Enlargement, hypertrophy of
heart. Chief remedy for varicose or enlarged veins or varicose ulcer,

. Enamal of the teeth rough and deficient. Unnatural looseness of the teeth with or

without pain, teeth become loose in their sockets.

. If lacking in Calcium Fluoride, emotional symptoms include uncertainty and

difficulty making choices. Groundless fears of financial ruin.

. Rectum: Hemorrhoids, when bleeding. Protruding and itching piles, blind piles,

accompanied with pain in back and constipation. Piles with rush of blood to the
head, confined bowels, inability to expel the faeces, due to a relaxed condition of the
rectum, allowing a too large accumulation of faecal matter. This condition is
frequently met with after confinement, when all the pelvic muscles are relaxed.
Fissure of anus, sore crack near end of bowel; should also be used locally.

Fissure of the anus, fistulous ulcers, when secreting thick, yellow pus (Silicea, Calc.
sulph).

. Female Sexual Organs : All displacements of the uterus require this remedy.

Falling of the womb. Anteversion, retroversion, and the flexions of the uterus
require this salt to tone up the contractile muscles. Dragging pains in the groin and
in the lower part of the back. Pains extend to the thighs. Menses excessive, flooding,
with bearing-down pains. Uterus very relaxed and flabby, or very hard, like stone.
Hard lump in the breast (Kali mur.).

. Circulatory Organ : Varicose veins. and also a tendeney to this condition . Veins

seem as if they would burst use also a lotion of the drug. Dilation of the blood-
vessels, the elastic fibres of the walls of the vessels have become relaxed; this is the
chief remedy to restore their contractility. First stage of aneurism. Hypertrophy or
enlargement of the heart. Irregularities of the heart’s action, when due to prolapsus
of uterus and other relaxing diseases.

. Back and Extremities : Pain in lower part of back, weak, with dragging pains.

Burning pains in the sacrum with confined bowels. Lumbago from strains. Chronic
cases of lumbago; aggravation on beginning to move and amelioration by continued
motion.

Inflammation of knee joint, chronic synovitis. Cracking in the joints.

Hard swelling on the bone surface. Gouty enlargement of the joints. Ganglia or
encysted tumors at the back of the wrist. Exotoses on fingers. Osseous tumor.
Swelling of elbow-joint, crepitation, showing want of synovial fluid.

Varicose ulceration of the veins of the limbs; use also a lotion on cotton. Rubber
bandages or elastic stockings should also be used.

. Neck and Back : Indurated cervical glands of stony hardness. Small stony hard
goitres.
Skin : Chapped hands or lips from cold. Skin hard, thickened and horny; Fissures

or cracks in the palms of the hands; mix a quantity of the drug in vaseline, and after
washing the hands rub the ointment thoroughly.
