Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

—

Vomiting is copious and greenish.
After vomiting, weakness and prostration with sleepiness \s found in AEthusa.
Mentally the baby is idiotic and physically so weak as to unable to stand and hold up head.

Features expressive of pain and anxiety are present on face. Prostration with sleepiness is well-
marked in AEthusa compared to Calcarea os, or carb. ;

Cholera Infantum : (Summer diarrhoea or Infantile Cholera).

If the milk drunk by the baby stays in the stomach for a long time, it is vomited out finally as very
sour curds, so large in quantity that it would seem almost impossible that the baby could have ejected
them. This condition of stomach when worse, turns into Cholera infantum. This is due to acute catarrhal
inflammation of the stomach and intestine with irritation of sympathetic ganglia.

Causation: Hith temperature of summer, errors of diet, dentition and bad hygienic surroundings.

Character; The onset is sudden and the child lies stretched out in an unconscious condition, with
fixed and dilated pupils and eyes turned downwards. Sunken face and well marked linea nasalis. Great
INTOLERANCE OF MILK. It is vomited out in large sour curds. After vomiting, the baby falls down
completely prostrated and exhausted. Violent.sudden vomiting of frothy white substance resembling
milk. Vomiting is green and copious. The child can retain nothing in its stomach. At every
commencement of an attack, there is great exhaustion and rapid wasting of the tissues.

Stool; Greenish, liquid, slimy and undigested, profuse with green mucus.

During and before stool, there is colic and convulsion. After stool, weakness and prostration with
sleepiness are well-marked.

In the last stage symptoms of collapse supervene.

Modality: Worse in the morning.

For cure of Cholera infantum, sometimes AEthusa should be followed by an anti-psoric remedy like
Psorinum or Sulphur. The attack may last from a few hours to several weeks.

Convulsion or Epilepsy :

AEthusa has got peculiar symptoms of epileptic convulsion. EYES ARE TURNED DOWNWARDS
instead of upwards or side wise. If the condition is worse, there is sunkenness on the face with well
marked linea nasalis. This symptom leads to AEthusa more than to any other remedy. Spasm with
clenched thumbs red face, fixed and dilated pupils, locked jaws and foam in the mouth are among the
very marked symptoms of AEthusa. Pulse is small, quick and hard. After spasm, weakness

prostration with sleepiness occur.

General Modéalities :

Aggravation : All complaints are worse after eating or drinking, hot summer weather, milk or milk
in any form, after vomiting, after stool, after spasm during the period of dentition, 3 a.m. to 4 a.m. and|
in the evening.

Amelioration : All complaints are better by covering, open fresh alr, seashore, rest, company and}
tight bandage on head.

Relations :
Similar to: Antim. crud., Arsenic., Calcarea carb.
Complementary to: Calcarea carb.

Antidoted by: Vegetable acids.
It antidotes: Opium, Aconite in inflammatory conditions. i

