Argentum Nitricum . 79

Throat :

Inflamed, with thick mucus discharge and feeling of rawness and soreness with splinter-like sensation
in the throat; during swallowing, tingling with sensation of hair in the throat with hoarseness in the

evening.
Laryngitis of singers and public speakers.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms : ;
The stomach is full of flatulence as if it would burst. Air rushes out with great violence both ways
without any relief. Flatulent dyspepsia.
Modalities:
¢ Aggravation: From sweet, ice cream, emotion and lying on left side.

¢ Amelioration; From eructation, pressure and abstaining from sweet and cold food.

Diarrhoea :
Argentum nitricum has got two kinds of diarrhoea, viz. (1) Nervous diarrhoea and (2) Diarrhoea due
to gastro-intestinal disorders.

1. Nervous diarrhoea : It sets in as a result of any mental emotion, nervousness, etc. There is great
apprehension when the patient is ready to go to church or opera or to appear for the examination,
or before public or any other engagement, suddenly diarrhoea comes in (Gels.). Although there is
no particular striking characteristic feature about the stool, there is watery stool with intolerable
offensiveness and urging. But immediately the person starts performing the task for which he was
preparing, the diarrhoea disappears and he is perfectly well and accomplishes the assigntment quite
satisfactorily.

2. Diarrhoea due to gastro-intestinal disorders.

Causation: Sugar, candy, sweets, milk, salt, etc. After weaning in children, mental shock, after long
mental exertion.
Sensation: As if the abdomen would burst with wind.

Character of stool: Stool is watery, green, or turning to green when left on a diaper, looking like
chopped spinach, with much noisy flatus. Stool bloody, slimy, watery with green flakes and severe
tenesmus; lot of casts are passed with the stool.

Modalities:

* Aggravation: At night, from sugar, salt, starchy food, ice; ice-cream, mental exertion, after
weaning, from alcohol and lying on left side.
* Amelioration : From lying on right side, from eructation, from fresh air and from pressure.

Concomitants; Almost all the symptoms are associated with nausea and vomiting of glairy mucus.

Nervous Symptoms :

Locomotor-ataxia with lightning like pain in the affected part. Convulsion followed by great
restlessness with trembling of the body. Staggering and paralytic’ heaviness of lower limbs. Hysteria
with complete but temporary blindness. Numbness in forearm at night. A kind of numb sensitiveness of
the arms—a hyperaesthetic anaesthetic state; increased sensitiveness to touch but diminished sense of
distinguishing sensations. Rigidity in calves with great weakness.
