560 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

11) Coryza ending in diarrhoea (Sang. Can.)

12) Headache every afternoon, of drunkards, after debauchery, lemonade, tea, wine.
13) Aphonia after long use of voice.

14) Emaciation of affected parts.

15) Ailments from : ...... Alcohol, tea, lemonade, Debauchery, Loss of fluids,
Masturbation, Exertion.

16) Mind : Selenium patient is very forgetful in business, but during sleep dreams of
what he had forgotten.

He is extremely sad, abject, despairing, uncompromising, melancholic. Mental
labour fatigues him. Lascivious thoughts with impotency.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation : Debauchery. Tea. Lemonade. Wine.
Location : Pain over left eye.
Character of headache:

There is violent attacks of lancinating pains in head above left eye with desire to lie down. Head-ache
every afternoon; Headache in old drunkards.

Aggravation:Walking in the sun, strong odours, tea.

Gastrointestinal Symptoms :

Throat : Selenium is a very useful remedy in hoarseness, aphonia even in incipient tubercular
laryngitis. Aphonia after long use of voice. Voice is husky when beginning to sing, there is hawking
& raising of transparent lumps of mucus like a starch. Patient must clear throat frequently. There may be
cough in the moming with bloody expectoration.

Stomach : Causation of stomach ailments : Sugar, Salt food, tea, lemonade.

Longing for spirituous liquors—an almost maniacal desire. Sweetish taste in mouth with thick white
coating of tongue in the morning. Hiccough and eructations after smoking. There is pressure in the
stomach as if cramp would occur. Hunger at night.

Abdomen : Chronic liver affections with painful enlarged liver and fine rash over liver region.

Constipation ; Causation ; Constipation after serious illness especially enteric fevers. Stool is hard,
large and is very much impacted. Stool has to be removed mechanically,

Male Sexual symptoms

This remedy has a very marked action on male genital system and is quiet a favourite remedy with
homoeopaths for the ills and abuses of sexual system such as impotency, spermatorrhoea, prostatorrhoea,
priapism etc. Debility—weakness of sexual organs is a characteristic feature. There is desire, lewd
thoughts but the patient is physically impotent. It increases desire, decreases ability. Loss of sexual
power with lascivious fancies. Erections slow, insufficient, too rapid emission with long continued thrill.
