718 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Hectic Fever (Abrot.) An afternoon rise of fever. Seen in active tuberculosis.
Hem and hawk (Arg. M.) Cleaning the throat noisily.

Hemicrania (Arg. N., Amyl. N.,) Unilateral headache as in migrane.
Hemiopia (Aur. M.) Loss of vision for one half of the visual field.

Herpes Circinatus (Sep., Tell.) Dermatitis herpetiformis (resembling herpes).

Herpes Zoster (Hepar.) It is caused by varicellazoster virus; the virus attacks sensory
nerves with severe pain and appearance of vesicles along the distribution of the nerves
involved (usually unilateral).

Hernia (Plum.) The abnormal protrusion of an organ, through an aperture in the
surrounding structures.

Herring (Agnus, c.) A kind of North Atlantic fish.

Hiccough (Tab.) An involuntary inspiratory spasm of the respiratory organs ending in a
sudden closure of the glottis, with the production of a characteristic sound.

Hideous faces (Beil.) Horrible, frightful faces.
High game (Crot.) Stale meat (Ref. Webster's New world dictionery).

Hippocratic face (Camp, Carb. v., Sec. C., Ver. A.) A peculiar facial expression found in
dehydration with prominent malar bones.

Hissing respiration (Acet. Ac.) Respiration with hissing sound.
Home-sickness (Cap, Phos. Ac.) Depression, as a result of absence from home.
Hot medicines (Nux V.) Stimulants.

Hour glass contraction (Sec, C.) Constriction in the middle likes and glass which runs out
in one hour.

Hovering (Asar.) Hanging in the air.

Humid Asthma (Nat. S.) Asthma in damp weather.

Humming in ears (Kreos.) Continuous sound that is made by bees.

Hunterian (hard) Chancre (Merc. P. Jod, Merc. S.) The hard sore of primary syphilis.
Hydrocephalus Accumulation of fluid in cerebral ventricles.

Hydrocephalus tubercular (Hell-N) Hydrocephalus due to tuberculosis.

Hydrogenoid constitution (of Grauvogl) (Ant. T, Nat. S., Thuj) The patient suffering
from this constitution is very susceptible to any thing which in anyway increases the
atoms of water in the organism. So he feels worse in cold damp weather, in rain, by
bathing or even from eating animals which live in water like fish etc. All symptoms are
aggravated by taking cold foods & drinks but chiefly by living near water or standing
inwater.

Hydrothorax (Merc. Sulph.) The presence of fluid in the pleural cavity.
Hyperaesthesia (Taran.) Excessive sensitiveness of a part.
