CINCHONA OFFICINALIS (CHINA)

Peruvian Bark HAHNEMANN Rubiaceae
China

INTRODUCTION

When we think about Cinchona, we are
unknowingly taken to 1790 in the study room of
Hahnemann because it was Cinchona bark
which revealed to him the unique system of
treatment, “Homoeopathy”. After passing the
M.D., the then highest examination in
Allopathy and practising it for about 10 years,
Hahnemann became completely disappointed
and disgusted with the crude, inhuman,
torturing, troublesome and harmful system of
allopathic treatment. He was master of many
languages. Therefore, he decided to earn his livelihood by the most innocent, yet useful
profession of translating various books into different languages. While doing so, he came
across the fact that Cinchona bark has the power of producing malaria-like symptoms in
healthy human beings, and this led him to conclude that if it has got the power to
produce malaria-like symptoms in the healthy human beings, theri it is also capable of
curing the natural disease manifesting symptoms similar to that of malaria in people
naturally sick. With this idea in view, he himself took a little quantity of the juice
expressed from the Cinchona bark and he was soon sick with symptoms similar to
malaria. He tried the experiment on his family members and friends with the same
results. This was the beginning of the historic invention of “HOMOEOPATHY”. THUS
CINCHONA TO HAHNEMANN WAS, WHAT FALLING APPLE WAS TO Newton.

Following this pleasant experience and new idea, Hahnemann proved and
established many remedies on the basis of “SIMILIA SIMILIBUS CURANTUR”. He also
treated with great success many diseases t with the remedies he proved arid established,
of which the first and foremost was Cinchona.

CLINICAL

Anaemia, Abdominal disorders, Bilious attack, Catarrhal affection, Constipation,
Diarrhoea, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Deafness, Gall-stone colic, Haemorrhage, Headache,
Intermittent fever, Jaundice, Labour, Liver complaints, Pain, Menstrual troubles,
Rheumatism, Respiratory troubles, Spleen affection, Vertigo, etc.

SPHERES OF ACTION

China predominantly acts on blood, cardiovascular system, gastro-intestinal tract,
liver, spleen, respiratory organs, nervous system, brain and mind.

215
