Alumina 41

1. Very chilly patient, deficient in animal heat and relieved by warmth in general,
except skin eruptions.

2. Dryness of all the mucous membranes of the body; also there is dry skin.

3. There is extreme inactivity of the rectum; even soft stool requires great straining.
There is no desire for stool for days together.

4. Obstinate constipation due to paretic condition of the intestine and rectum and
dryness of mucous membrane. Requires great straining even to void soft stool which
adheres to the rectum like clay (Platina).

5. There is diarrhoea when the patient urinates (Mur.ac).

6. Leucorrhoea is profuse, transparent and acrid, running down to heels; more during
day and better by cold bathing.

7. There is intense craving for undigestible things, such as starch, chalk, charcoal,
cloves, coffee, teagrounds, etc. Aversion to meat and potato which disagree.

8. Inability to walk except with eyes open and in the daytime (Arg.nit., Gels.).

9. Trembling of the whole body with desire to lie down which, however, aggravates the
fatigue.

10. All irritating things—salt, wine, vinegar, pepper, etc., immediately produce cough.

11. Aggravation at new and full moon, in cold air, from eating potatoes. Amelioration in
summer weather, from warmth and while eating.

12. Mind : The patient is very hasty and hurried. Timepasses too slowly; an hour seems
half a day (Arg.nit., Cannabis indica, Medorrhinum— rev. of Cocculus).

Great mental confusion persists; confusion of mind and ideas. Confused as to his
personal identity itself. The consciousness of his existence is forgotten. He is not
exactly who he is, it seems as though he were not himself. The patient makes
mistakes in writing and speaking, uses wrong words.

He is very sad and has variable mood. Yet there is another-state of mind too, where
the patient is very much impulsive; when he sees sharp instruments or blood,
impulses rise up so as to kill himself. Most of the mental symptoms come on in the
morning or on walking in the morning.

PARTICULARS

Gastrointestinal symptoms :

Stomach : Abnormal craving for starch, charcoal, cloves, coffee or tea-grounds, acid and
undigestible things. (Calc. carb., Nitric acid, Cicuta, Cina, Psorinum). There is no desire to eat; potatoes
disagree, aversion to meat. Chronic eructation for years, up and down, worse in the evening.

Diarrhoea : Inactivity of the rectum and paralytic condition of the intestine is well-marked.
Consequently, there is great straining. Even soft stool requires great straining (Anac., Platina, Nit. acid.).
There is diarrhoea when the patient urinates, The patient has to strain at stool in order to urinate.
Diarrhoea after eating potatoes.
