130 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. Dread of downward motion in nearly all complaints, e.g. while going downstairs
or rapidly down hill.
. Excessive nervousness, easily frightened by slightest noise.
. Aphthae: mouth of the child feels hot to mother’s nipple.
Child screams before urination (Lyco.).
. Leucorrhoea copious, albuminous and UNNATURALLY HOT.
. Symptoms are aggravated in warm weather and after menstruation.

. Mind : Great anxiety. Patient is anxious about trifles. He starts at every noise, on
hearing unexpected news, from excitement, this anxiety and nervousness are
aggravated from DOWNWARD MOTION, even riding down hill or walking
downstairs.

The patient is excessively nervous. Easily frightened by the slightest noise or an
unusual sharp sound, and cough, sneeze, cry, lighting of a match, etc.

It was hysterical manifestation also. Changes from one work to another. It has
restlessness, nervousness, anxiety, and excitable state which run through the entire drug.

a Ao ® wo Ww

PARTICULARS

Head :

Plica polonica (matted hair because of filth and from a parasite). Hair becomes frowsy, tangled, splits,
sticks together at the tips. If these bunches are cut off, they form again; very difficult to be combed.

Eyes :
Lashes turn inwards; eyelids are inflammed; eye lashes loaded with dry, gummy exudation,
agglutinated in the morning, turn inward and inflame the eyes.

Mouth :

Aphthae in the mouth, on tongue and inside the cheeks, buccal mucus membrane much reddened.
easily bleeding during eating or when touched prevents child from nursing, with hot mouth, cracked
arid bleeding tongue with salivation. Aphthous sore mouth; worse from touch and taking salty or sour
food,

Menses :

Useful in membranous dysmenorrhoea when there is violent, labour like pain before and during the
flow, as if the uterus would expel itself through the vagina. Menstruation has the following characteristics :

* Time: Too early.

* Quantity: Too profuse.
* Character of blood: Very MUCH HOT: the flow starts meagrely, but the same violent pain
keeps on until the expulsion of the membrane. .

* Concomitants: Pain in the head and stomach with buzzing sound -in the ears.
