— 271
pe

or sudden changes in hot weather, when the days are hot and nights are
cold (Bry).

9, Consequent upon perspiration being suppressed, there is INCREASED
SECRETION OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE which is a great symptom of Dulcamara.
Catarrhal condition and profuse discharges such as urine, saliva, loose stool, mucus
in respiratory organs e.g., are very conspicuous.

3, General AGGRAVATION FROM COLD AND RELIEF BY WARMTH.

4, Urticaria and other various skin troubles all over the body without fever.

5. A curious regional effect of Dulcamara is at or about the umbilicus where pinching
and shooting pain occurs again and again.

6. There will be RASH and other eruptions on face, hands and arms before menses
(Conium). There is a general tendency to throw out eruptions all over the body.

7. Whey-like and milky urine catarrhal ischuria; in grown up children with milky
urine, from wading with bare feet in cold water; involuntary urine.

8. Anasarca: after ague, rheumatism or scarlet fever; dropsy after suppressed sweat,
suppressed eruptions or exposure to cold.

9. There is mental confusion; cannot find the right word for anything.

10. Ailments from : Exposure to cold GETTING WET IN RAIN, damp cold, weather;
wading in water with bare feet, washing checked perspiration, suppressed and
checked eruptions; when the days are hot and the nights are cold.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation: From exposure to cold, getting wet in rain, damp cold weather, etc.

Character of headache: There is occipital headache ascending from the nape of neck. There is
digging pain in forehead, with sensation as if the brain were too large. Stupefying pain in back part of the
head. Back of the head is chilly, heavy and aching during cold weather.

Headache is relieved by talking.

Concomitants: Along with headache, there may be vertigo, especially on walking in the morning or
when rising from bed.
Eyes :

Causation: Cold, every time the patient takes cold, It settles in the eyes.

Due to catarrhal condition there is profuse discharge from the eyes.

Character of discharge: Thick, yellowish, profuse, discharges with granular lids, every time he takes
cold.

Modalities: Aggravation from open air, cold damp weather. Amelioration in closed room.

Nose :
Causation; From cold damp weather.
