Argentum metallicum 75

4. Raw spot over the bifurcation of trachea.

5. Exhausting fluent coryza with sneezing.

6. Sexual weakness with crushed pain in testicles.

7. Prolapse of uterus with pain and haemorrhage.

8. Bad effects of abuse of mercury, syphilis, sexual excess, and onanism, such as
impotency, atrophy of penis, bruised pain in resticle, etc.

9, Articular rheumatism without swelling (so called hysterical rheumatism).

PARTICULARS

Throat and respiratory tract :

There is exhausting and fluent coryza with sneezing. Hoarseness of professional singers and public
speakers with total loss of voice.

Throat and larynx feel sore or raw on swallowing or on coughing. Laughing causes cough (Drosera,
Phosphorus, Stannum) and produces profuse mucus in larynx, cough with easy expectoration of
gelatinous viscid mucus, looking like boiled starch.

While reading the patient has to hem and.hawk to clear the throat and expectorate the mucus. Great
weakness in the chest (Stannum); worse when lying on left side.
Raw spot over the bifurcation of trachea; worse when using voice, talking or singing.
Modalities:
* Aggravation: When riding in a carriage; when touching or pressing upon, when talking, singing
or reading aloud.

Male Genital Organs :

Causation: Due to sexual excess, onanism and abuse of mercury.

Character: There is seminal emission after onanism, almost every night, without erection. The penis
is atrophied.

There is crushed pain in the testicles.

Female Genital Organs :
Prolapse : There is prolapse of uterus with pain in the left ovary and back.
The pain extends forwards and downwards.
During climacteric age; along with prolapse, there will also be haemorrhage.
Unine : The colour of urine is like whey in diabetes mellitus.
General Modalities :
Aggravation: Riding in a carriage (Cocculus), when touched or pressed upon; talking, singing,
reading aloud.
Relations :
Follows well after Alumina.
Similar to: Stannum in cough excited by laughing.
Antidoted by: Puls and Mercurius.
