ALLEN'S KEY NOTE = sf sey wolaation 709

Bilious attack érdacishicy H., Bry, Podo) Denoting a somewhat non descript congestive
disturbance with ariorexia, coated tongue, constipation, headache, dizziness, pasty
complexion, and rarely stight jaundice; assumed to result from hepatic dysfunction.

Bilious constituijen eli) One marked by more or less general pigmentation, high blood
pressure, slow ise, well developed muscles, strong appetite.

Bilious Fever (Biipat.Y Malarial haemoglobinuria or black water fever.

Blisters (Anthrax}"Sepitation of the epidermis from the dermis by a collection of fluid,
usually serum or bined.

Blonde (Brom., Chet, Nit A, Sel, Tub.) Light coloured, flaxen; fair. Woman having such hair
and skin. wo

Blond hair (Cale. pat.) Light coloured hair.

Blushing (Amylensien. Nis Per. M.) Become red in the face with shame or other emotion.
Blur or film (Phyasiacittnct or thin coating.

Book-worms (Cee), Persons devoted to reading.

Borborygmus (Cinch) "‘Besibling or gurgling noises, produced by movement of gas in the
alimentary canal, audible at a distance.

Boyish go (Aur. M. ) Activity of Boys.

Bran-like (Tub J bike husk of grains.

Breeds vermin “(itex) ‘Breeds parasitic insect.

Brusies (Am. M., Sulph. A.) Contusion usually producing a hematoma without rupture of the
skin.

Brunette (Nit. A., Tub.) Dark skinned and dark brown or black haired woman.

Bubo (Merc. S.): Enlargement of lymphatic glands, especially in the groin, A feature of soft
sore (Chancroid) lymtphogranuloma inguinale and plague.

Bunions (Hyp, Rhod,) § .-Hallux Valgus. A deformity on the head of the metatarsal bone
at its junction ‘with | the great toe. Friction and pressure of shoes at this point cause a
bursa to develop. The prominent bone, with its bursa, is known as a bunion.

s
” taken

Cachectic people (Bar. C., Hydr, Nit. Ac. Sec. C., Carb. V., Nat. M.) People having a general
lack of nutrition and wasting, occurring in the. course of a chronic disease.

Cachexia (Eupat, lod.) A term denoting a state of constitutional disorder, malnutrition and
general ill health. The chief signs of this condition are bodily emaciation, sallow

unhealthy skin and heavy lustureless eyes.
Calamity (Lil. T.) Any extreme misfortune bringing great loss and sorrow.

