—

Due to catarrhal condition of the mucous membrane of nose there is, profuse, watery discharges
grom nose or there may be dry coryza too.

Character of discharge: Thick, yellowish and profuse. In infants and children, there is snuffles.
‘They cannot breathe through the nose.

Modalities: Aggravation from cold air, damp weather. Amelioration in a warm room.

Gastro-intestinal, symptoms :
Diarrhoea :

® Causation: Taking cold in damp places or during damp, foggy weather, changes from warm to
cold weather.

© Character of stool: Yellow, slimy stool greenish, with undigested food substances. Profuse and
watery due to catarrhal condition of mucous membrane of intestine. Mucous diarrhoea alternately
yellow and greenish.
* Modality: Aggravation from cold, damp wet weather.
Urine :

* Causation: Cold damp weather, from wading with bare feet in cold water.

© Character of urine: When the unrine is stored it becomes thick, purulent, sediment yellowish;
white discharge with constant urging to urinate. Every time he takes a little cold, frequency of urination is
increased. Urine becomes irritating; the catarrah of the bladder rises up like a flame. There is catarrhal

ischuria. especially in grown-up children with milky urine (Cina); involuntary, from wading with bare
feet in cold water.

* Modality: Aggravation from cold damp wet weather.
Cough :
¢ Causation: From cold air, damp wet rainy weather,

* Character of cough: Due to catarrhal condition of mucous membrane of respiratory tract.

there is loose cough with free expectoration, spasmodic cough with excessive secretion. There is
tickling in larynx.

* Character of sputa: Sputa is thick, yellowish, profuse with loose rattling cough. Patient must
cough all the time to expel phlegm.

* Modalities; Aggravation from cold, damp, rainy weather. Amelioration in a warm room.
Rheumatism :
Causation: From cold, damp, rainy weather or sudden changes in hot weather, living or working
in damp places, suppressed perspiration. .

Character of pain; The joints are inflamed, swollen and red, There is aching pain, sore, lame and
bruised feeling all over, very much sensitive to touch, lameness and stiffness in back.

Modalities: Aggravation in the evening and at night, during rest, Amelioration by moving about
(Ferum met., Rhus tox.).

Skin :

Causation: Damp, wet and rainy weather, from cold, etc. It has got tendency to throw, out eruptions
over the body. It is one of the very good Eruptive medicines.

Character of Skin: \t produces vesicular type of eruptions, with brown, humid crusts, multiple
little boil like eruptions. Eruptions especially upon the scalp with sense of itching and scratching and
