pulsatilta Nigricans 505
—

5.

10.
11.

14.

15.

16.

Thirstlessness : There is thirstlessness with nearly all complaints with dry white
coated tongue (Nux mos.). HERING SAYS the thirst is rare, but when thirsty,
drinks often and little at a time which provokes vomiting. Bad taste in the mouth
especially in the morning.

. Discharges : All discharges from mucous membranes are thick, bland, greenish-

yellow, but vaginal discharges such as leucorrhoea are sometimes acrid and
excoriating causing rawness of the parts (Kent.)

. Derangements : Especially at puberty. “Never been well since that time”, says the

patient referring to puberty or menarche.

. Menses : Too late and scanty or suppressed particularly by getting feet wet.
. Desire : For open air, fatty food. Disagrees meat, bread, milk and smoking.

Sensation : All gone sensation in stomach, especially in tea drinkers.

Sleep : Sleepless in the first of night; from ideas crowding in the mind and sleeps
late in the morning. Sees frightful dreams.

. Diarrhoea only or usually at night.
13.

There is aggravation from warm in general and amelioration from cold in general
and from open air.

Pulsatilla is one of the best remedies with which to begin the treatment of a chronic
case.

Mind : Mental symptoms of Pulsatilla give us the most important clues to the
selection of the remedy, which are as follows:

The patient is mild, gentle, amiable in character, yielding disposition, but
sometimes timid too.

Changeability of mental conditions runs through the whole drug. So there may
be indifference and irritability; hence the expression ‘Gay like April day’ with
changeable mood applies to Pulsatilla patient. Weeping disposition. The patient is
always Tull of tears. So she cannot relate her complaints without weeping (Med.).

She has hypochondrical moroseness; takes bad side of everything which disgusts
the patient.

Consolation: gives her immense comfort and relief (rev.— Ign., Nat. mur., Sepia,
Hell.).

The patient is highly emotional, afraid in the evening, fears to be alone. Fear of
darkness and of ghosts. There is morbid fear of meeting the opposite sex.

Ailments from : Chill getting feet wet; eating fatty and starchy food; ice cream;
tea and coffee, abuse of mercury, quinine, sulphur, chamomilla, abortion,
irregular menses; ovarion and uterine troubles; worm affection in children and

indigestion.
