yy
Kali Muriaticum 351

4) Discharges are very offensive, putrid.

5) Headache of students and those worn out by fatigue.

6) Right sided neuralgia relieved by cold applications.

7) Tongue coated brownish, like mustard. Excessively dry in the morning.

8) A nervous ‘gone’ sensation at the pit of the stomach.

9) Diarrhoea : Foul, putrid odor, caused by fright with depression and exhaustion.
10) Menses : too late or too scanty in pale irritable sensitive, lachrymose females.

11) Sleep—Sleeplessness after worry or excitement from nervous causes.
Somnambulism, walking in sleep in children.

12) Ailments from : Grief. Sexual excitement indulged or suppressed. Mechanical
injuries. Blows.

13) Mind : Very nervous, depression of spirit, general irrita-bility. Great
desponendency about business. Loss of memory. Indisposition to meet people.
Shyness, disinclined to converse. Want of energy. Slightest labour seems a
heavy task. Brainfag from overwork. Anxiety, nervous dread lethargy. Gloomy
moods, fancies, looks on the darkside of everything, dark forebodings. Hysteria,
night terrors, somanambulism. Extreme lassitude and dperession. Hallucinations
and illusions of senses.

PARTICULARS

Head :
Vertigo from lying, on standing up, from sitting andwhen looking upward.
Causation: Headache of students and those worn out by fatigue.
Location: Occipital headache.
Sensation: Head feels tired & dull. Back of head sore as if hair was pulled,
Modalities: Headaches are relieved by gentle motion.
Concomitant: Headache with weary, empty gone feeling at stomach.

Eyes :

Weakness of sight, loss of perceptive power after diphtheria, from exhaustion. Sensation of sand or
Sticks in eyes. Drooping of eyelids.

Ears :

Deafness from want of nervous perception with weakness and exhaustion of the nerves. Discharges
of foul, offensive ichorous pus from the ears. Humming and buzzing In the ears.

Gastrointestinal symptoms :

Mouth : Stomatitis, breath offensive, fetid. Gums spongy and receding. Toothache with easily
bleeding gums. Tongue coated brownish, like mustard. Excessively dry in the morning. Speech slow &

inarticulate. Grinding of teeth,
