Arnica Montana 83

Constipation :
¢ Causation: Due to enlarged prostate or retroverted uterus.
* Sensation: As if rectum is loaded, stool will not come out.
* Character: Ribbon-like stool.

Dysentery : Great straining and tenesmus.

* Character of stool: Very much offensive, brown, bloody, putrid and involuntary. Fruitless
urging. Long interval between two stools.

_ Concomitant: Dysentery with ischuria.

Urine : Involuntary urination; involuntary evacuation from bladder; vesical tenesmus, with very
painful micturition. Ischuria during dysentery.
Retention and incontinence of urine after labour (Hyos., Op.).

Injury :
(a) Acute :

* Causation: Results from blow, fall, contusion, traumatic and mechanical injuries. Injuries from
blunt instruments.

* Sensation: SORE, LAME, BRUISED FEELING ALL OVER THE AFFECTED PARTS. -
* Pain: Very much painful; sensitive to touch.
* Look of the skin: The affected parts become blue and black with extravasation of blood.

There may also be injury to conjunctiva and retina due to coughing, with extravasation of blood
(Ruta. Ledum) and sore, lame, bruised feeling in the eye.

After difficult labour, there is soreness of part with retention or incontinence of urine.
In acute case of injury, if Arnica is given when above mentioned symptoms are found:
“It controls haemorrhage.

It re-absorbs extravasation of blood.

It prevents suppuration and septic condition.

It prevents post-partum haemorrhage and puerperal complication.”

(b) Chronic injury: In chronic cases of injury, even if received years ago resulting in tremors,
articular rheumatism, paretic and paralytic condition of parts, Arnica is infallible.

Consequent upon chronic injury, especially concussion of brain, received years ago, there is
involuntary evacuation from bladder; involuntary faeces and urine.

Rheumatism:

Type: Ascending type of rheumatism (Ledum), (Descending type-Cactus, Kalmia).

Character of pain: oversensitive to touch, cannot bear pain. There Is great fear of being touched
or struck by persons coming near him, Pain in the back and limbs as if bruised or beaten. Cannot walk
erect on account of bruised pain in pelvic organs.

Modalities; Aggravation from touch and amelioration by lying down.
