jodum 331

There is RAVENOUS HUNGER, suffers from hunger; must eat every few hours; anxious and worried
if he does not eat; feels relieved while eating or after eating and when stomach \s full (Anacardium,

Chelidonium, Psorinum, Sepia).

Respiratory System :

Throat : Enlarged thyroid Goitre with sensation of the constriction. Sub-maxillary glands are
swollen.

Caugh : Dry type of cough with wheezing afd sawing respiration, sensation of itching low down in

the lungs, behind the sternum causing cough, extends through bronchi to nasal cavity, inspiration difficult,
croupy cough, tickling all over the chest.

* Modality: Aggravation from indoors, in warm, wet weather and when lying on back.
* Concomitants: With cough there is palpitation of heart. Croupy cough is found in fleshy
children.
Pneumonia :
* Stage: lodum is ideally suited to the hepatisation stage of pneumonia.
¢ Location: Right side of lung affected.

* Character: Dry type of cough with wheezing and sawing respiration, with high fever. Itching
low down in lungs, behind the sternum with blood-streaked sputum, Dyspnoea.

e Modality: Aggravation from warmth, wet weather, when lying on back.
Heart : Hypertrophy of the heart; myocarditis, painful compression around the heart.

¢ Sensation: As if the heart was squeezed together, as if grasped with an iron hand (Cactus)
followed by weakness.
Great palpitation from least exertion. There is also great weakness and loss of breath on going
upstairs (Calcarea carb.).

¢ Modality: Aggravation from least exertion on going upstairs.

Menses :
Irregular type of menses with uterine haemorrhage. There may ne cancerous degeneration of cervix.

Uterus is enlarged with tedency to menorrhagia. There is wedge-like pain from ovary to uterus.
Swelling and induration of uterus and ovaries.

Leucorrhoea :
Time: At the time of menses.
Quantity; Profuse and abundant.

Character: Thick, slimy, acrid, corrosive, staining and corroding the linen. Leucorrhoea with swelling
and induration of cervix. The Leucorrhoea |s thick, slimy and sometimes bloody. Leucorrhoea is most
abundant at the time of menses, rendering things sore and corroding the clothes.

Glandular System :
Hypertrophy of all glands of the body, except the breasts. Hypertrophy runs through the
whole remedy.

There is enlargement of liver, spleen, ovaries, testes, lyrriphatic glands, cervical glands, i.e. all sorts
of glands, except mammary glands, The mammae dwindle while all other glands become enlarged, hard
