626 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Miasm: Pseudopsora is in the background.
Diathesis: Tubercular and scrofulous diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Symptoms ever changing—are very striking. Symptoms change all the time
affecting one organ after another, such as brain, lungs, liver, etc. (Lac can.).
Symptoms begin suddenly and cease suddenly.

2. The patient takes told easily without knowing how and from where. Seems to take
cold “every time he takes a breath of fresh air”.

3. This remedy can be thougt of when there is a family history of tubercular affections
or when the best selected remedy fails to relieve or permanently improve, without
reference to the name of the disease.

4. Emaciation rapid and pronounced. Losing flesh while living well (Abrot., Cale.
Phos., Iodum, Silicea).

5. Sudden, early morning diarrhoea.

6. It is a good, remedy for bony suppurations especially in cases that have been
resistant to other remedies.

7. Patient feels better in every way when in open air.

8. Chronic headache, when the best selected remedy only palliates. Also it is good for
school girl’s headache even when suitable glasses fail to relieve, but the paient must
have a tubercular history.

9. Crops of small boils which are intensely painful, appear successively, especially in
nose, containing green foetid pus (Secale cor.).

10. Mind : The patient is very much PRECOCIOUS mentally but physically weak. He
is irritable and fretful, especailly when waking up. Depressed and melancholic;
despondent and morose.

The drug also has contradictory mental symptoms such as mania and melancholia,
insomnia and sopor.

There is great fear of animals especially of DOGS. The patient has disposition and
desire to use foul and filthy language to curse to swear.

The patient is naturally of asweet disposition, but now turned peevish, taciturn and
sulky—on the boderland of insanity. Everything in the room seems to be strange as
though in a strange place, despite the fact that the place and room are very familiar.

11. Ailments from tubercular heritage.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Tubercular history in family, chronic headache, when the best selected remedies only
palliate.
