camphora 167

1.

8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

13.

Camphor is the UNIVERSAL ANTIDOTE TO THE MEDICINES PREPARED
FROM VEGETABLE KINGDOM.

. The patient is exceedingly sensitive to cold air (Hepar. sulph., Nux vom., Kali carb.

and Rumex).

. Surface cold to touch, chilliness, yet cannot bear to be covered, throws off

all the coverings (Secale cor., Med., wants covering,—Hepar, Psor., Nux Vom. and
Rumex),

. Collapsed condition with coldness and lividity are the leading features of

Camphor.

. Pain is better while thinking of it. (Hell.), (Worse, Calc. phos.. Baryta carb., Medo.

and Gels.)

. Profound prostration with rapid sinking of strength. ,
. Scantiness of discharges: e.g. diarrhoea, vomiting, sweat, urine, etc. is characteristic

to Camphor and Camphor only.

Entire body painfully sensitive to slight touch (Kali carb. and Spigelia).

Camphor has internal heat and external coldness.

Cramps with icy coldness of limbs is a characteristic of Camphor.

Repercussed eruption of measles and scarlatina. In all sequelae of measles.
Camphor is indicated in many conditions of sudden collapse from over powering
influence.

Bad effects of shock from injury, eruptions suppressed, cold air, sunstroke and
vexation.

14. Mind : Mentally there is great anxiety and extreme fear, fear of persons, of strange

atmospheres, of darkness. The patient goes into a state of imbecility. The
appearence is, as if it had come on slowly. There is delirious condition, with heat,
rage and mania; anxiety, tosses about anxiously in bed with almost loss of
conciousness.

PARTICULARS

Cholera :

It typifies the collapse stage of Asiatic Cholera, says Dr. N.M. Chowdhury.

* Stage: In the first stage of Cholera morbus and Aslatic Cholera,
* Onset: Sudden attack of vomiting and diarrhoea.
* Quantity; There is not much discharge from the bowels, not much vomiting, sweat and urine,

but suddenly the patient CoLLAPSES..

Great coldness of surface, body cold to touch yet cannot bear to be covered. Throws off

all the coverings. With collapse, there is great prostration and rapld sinking of strength.
