CARCINOSIN

" The nosode of Carcinosin (generally of breast or stomach)

INTRODUCTION

Carcinosin is one of the principal nosodes of cancer and is one of
Dr. Burnett’s different cancer preparations. Dr. D. M. Foubister is
the chief authority for its homoeopathic uses. We are greatly
indebted to Dr. Foubister for our knowledge of Carcinosin. One
learns more about this medicine from his famous “The Carcinosin
Drug Picture”. He had been its chief exponent and had conducted
extensive provings to give Car-cinosin a stable position in our
Materia Medica. He proved it himself in the 200th potency. It is most
commonly indicated and deep acting, constitutional polychrest
medicine. It can be said that Carcinosin is a drug of many
combinations, of great contradiction and of alterations of symptoms
(like Lac. Can.)

CONSTITUTION :
Appearance : Brownish—Brownish “cafe an tail” complexion

having blue sclerotics and numerous moles. There may be both fair and dark complexion,
bulky and emaciated body, having multiple warts or some birth marks anywhere in the

body.

Thermal Interpretation :The patient may be chilly or hot or is affected by both

extremes of heat and cold.
Temperament: Suited to every temperament.

Miasms :Psora, sycosis, syphilis, all three miasms are in the background.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS :

1) When apparently well indicated remedies even nosodes like psorinum,
Medorrhinum, Syphilinum & Tuber-culinum fail to cure a case or produce a
temporary amelioration of all the symptoms Carcinosin acts as a complementary
drug.

2) When two or more remedies are partially indicated with-out complete coverage by
and single one, Carcinosin should be considered.

3) Family history of cancer—Diabetes Mellitus, Tuber-culosis, Pernicious anaemia,
syphilis or any other degenerative condition is traced—there may be or may not be
such history, if symptoms agree ‘Carcinosin’ should be thought of.

4) Personal history of recurrent attacks of bronchitis, pneumonia, whooping cough in
childhood, even ten-dency to suffer repeatedly from measles, chicken pox, diptheria,

189
