Hyoscyamus Nigar | 321

like a mad man; does foolish things; abuses those around him. Talks of imaginary
doings, but has no wants and makes no complaints. Low muttering delirium,
continues even while awake.

The patient is very fearful. He is afraid of everything. FEAR of being alone; of being
poisoned; of being bitten or sold, Fears to eat or drink, or to take what is offered.
Anxious apprehension.

Jealousy and suspicion run through the whole of this remedy. He suspects others
of making some plot against him; being , poisoned; being injured etc.

In Hyoscyamus, LASCIVIOUS MANIA is of the highest degree. The person will not
be covered. Kicks off the clothes, immodesty; exposes the person. Sings obscene
songs, lies completely naked in bed and chatters.

He is inclined to laugh at everything; incoherent speech even followed by epilepsy.
Silly expression and loquacity, cries and laughs alternately.

Stupor and unconsciousness are well-marked in this drug. The patient does not
reply or gives irrelevant answers. Does not recognise anyone. Sometimes answers
properly, but stupor returns at once.

Illusion and delusions of all senses. Sees persons who are not actually present
there. Thinks he is in a wrong place.

9. Aliments from : Fear, fright, intestinal worms, unfortunate love, jealousy and
rage.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation: Fear, fright, jealousy and rage.
Location: Headache is usually felt in the forehead.
Sensation: Swashing sensation in the brain.

Character: Pressing and stupefying pain in the forehead. Brain feels as if were loose. The patient
shakes the head to and fro or rolls head from side to side.

Modality: Aggravation at night, by mental affections, during menses and when lying down.
Concomitants: Confusion and vertigo as from intoxication, hiccough and dimness of vision.

Cough :

There is dry spasmodic cough, especially at night. The cough Is worse and aggravated by Ming
down, but relieved by sitting up (Drosera, Belladonna, Croton tig., Rumex), Cough compels the
patient to sit up and when he does so, there is appreciable rellef and the cough disappears. Cough is
aggravated at night after eating, drinking, talking and singing.

Urine :

For paralysis of bladder after labour with subsequent retention or incontinence of urine. For no desire
to urinate in lying-in woman, Hyoscyamus is an excellent remedy (Arn., Opium)
