642 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Blood pressure :

Veratrum viride is a very good medicine for high blood pressure whenever symptoms correspond
i.e.its peculiar pulse, characteristic tongue and face, throbbibng of carotids, BLOOD SHOT EYES AND
HEAD, etc. point to this drug.

Tongue :

The key-note of Veratrum viride is its peculiar and most characteristic tongue. The tongue is white or
yellow, but with RED STREAK DOWN THE MIDDLE. Tongue may be, dry, moist, with white or yellow
coating or no coating on either side, feels scalded (Sanguinaria) with increased saliva.

Pneumonia :

Causation; Exposure to cold or heat and sun's rays.
Mode of Onset: Sudden and violent onset.

Stage: Veratrum viride is indicated in the congestive stage or early stage and hepatisation stage of
pneumnonia.

Character: There is difficult breathing. Sensation of a heavy load on chest, Paint feeling in
STOMACH.

High fever with full hard pulse. Severe occipital headache. Livid or flushed face, cold, and clammy
perspiration. White or yellow tongue with red streak down the middle. Everything tastes sweet.
Modalities:
* Aggravation: By motion and being uncovered.
* Amelioration: By keeping quiet and lying down,
N.B. Veratrum viride will raise the opsonic index against the, Diplococcus pneumonae from 70 to
109 per cent.
Rheumatism :
Acute rheumatism with high fever; foil hartdand rapid pulse. Severe pain in joints and muscles with
scanty red urine.
Fever :

Veratrum viride may be frequently required for purerperal fever or milk fever or enteric fever or
pneumonia or suppurative fevers, or any other condition where the following symptoms are present:

Causation: Fever may come due to exposure to cold or sun's rays or extreme heat, or even after
suppression of lochia.

Mode of onset: The onset is very sudden and violent.

Character: There is unusually high rise of temperature, i.e, hyperthermia in the evening and
hypothermia in the morning.

Chill is more prominent: Patient feels cold, extremely cold with clammy perspiration. Face is flaccid
with congestive headache during heat stage. There may also be great weakness.

Pulse is full and hard.
The tongue may be coated white or yellow, but alwavs with a red streak down the middle.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: By motion, rising from bed, going from a hot to a cold place, sifting erect, being
uncovered and in winter.

Amelirration: By keeping head perfectly still, lying down, rubbing and massaging.
