410 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

PARTICULARS

Eyes :
Opthalmia neonatorum. Burning, excoriating discharge from the eyes, soreness of the eyes. Eyelids
swollen. Deep ulcers on the cornea.

Mouth :

Teeth loose. Gums spongy and swollen. Pyorrhoea and ptyalism. Tongue swollen and inflamed,
Salivation is profuse. Salty and bitter taste in mouth.

Throat :

UVULA SWOLLEN; SWALLOWING IS VERY PAINFUL RAPIDLY SPREADING ULCERS,
BURNING PAIN WITH GREAT SWELLING. All glands about the throat are swollen.

Modality: Worse by external pressure.

Dysentery :
Merc. cor. is FAMOUS for dysentery in violent cases.
Causation: Mostly during summer weather.

Stool: COPIOUS, BLEEDING, SUMY; contains streaks of mucus membrane; very offensive;
frequent evacuation.

Before stool: Tenesmus, cutting colic and uriging to stool.

During stool: Tenesmus of the rectum and may be accompanied with tenesmus of bladder too.

After stool: No relief. Tenesmus persists for some time, Great burning in the rectum.

Modality: More at night and aggravated by motion.

Concomitants: Unquenchable thirst. Salivated, swollen tongue. Abdomen swollen, hard and sensitive
to pressure, especially about the umbticus. Scanty urine, passes drop by drop; hot, bloody, tenesmnus in
the bladder. Faintness, weakness and shuddering. Cramps in the calf muscles,

Urine :

Tenesmus of bladder with intense burning in urethra. Urine is hot, burning, scanty or

suppressed. Voided drop by drop, with great pain; bloody. Intense burning in urethra. Stabbing pain
extends up urethra info bladder.

Concomitants: Perspiration after urinating. Albuminuria in early preganancy (Phosphorus, later and
at full term).

Gonorrhoea :

In the second stage of gonorrhoea when the greenish discharge begins to flow and the burning
and tenesmus continues, Merc. cor. is of great help.

Modality: Aggravation at night.
Concomitants: Penis and testes are enormously swollen. Chancres assume phagadenic appearance.

General Modalities :

Aggravation; Afternoon, AT NIGHT AND DURING SUMMER.
Amelioration: By rest.
