214 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Cough : Consequent upon worm infestation, there is dry cough with sneezing, spasmodic gagging
in the morning. Periodic return of cough in every spring coming in epidemic form. Child is afraid to speak
or move because it causes return of a paroxysm of cough.

Cough is aggravated from movement and speaking (Bry). Cina can also be thought of in the case of
pertusis (whooping cough) in children after Drosera hits relleved some of the symptoms. Furthermore,
for children, Cina is to be frequently used as an epidemic remedy for whooping cough, while adults
require other drugs.

Cina is also capable of curing aphonia from exposure when Aconite, Spongia and Phosphorus have
failed.

Skin : There is great sensitiveness of touch. Scalp is very sensitive (0 touch, particularly during
typhoid fever.

Cina Baby : Cina is particularly adapted to the babies who suffer from worms.

The baby is having HIGHLY IRRITABLE TEMPERAMENT, All the complaints are caused due to
WORM IRRITATION especially. Ascaris lumbricoides, due to which the baby always grinds the teeth and
bores the nose or rubs ‘the nose on the pillow or against the shoulder of the nurse.

Baby looks very pale with dark hair and complexion. There is whitish, bluish appearance around the
mouth with dark ring around the eyes. Sickly | baby with one cheek red and the other pale (One
cheek red and hot, the other pale and cold—Cham.).

The baby starts screaming during sleep and weeps pitifully after waking up. While sleeping, the baby
grinds the teeth due to worrr irritation and bores trie nose. Passes urine while sleeping.

Mentally the baby is highly irritable, peevish, cross and ill-humoured; does not want to be touched or
looked at; cannot bear to have any one near him; wants many things but refuses everything when offered.
(Cham., Bry., Staph., Kreosote). Even carrying does not give relief (Carrying gives relief—Cham.).

The baby is VERY HUNGRY; wants to eat all the time, very hungry soon after a full meal.
Baby wants to lie on abdomen while sleeping. There is great desire for sweets and indigestible things
and aversion to mother’s milk.

Due to irritation from the worms, the child may often get an attack of convulsion, especially during
sleep. In addition, there may be crampy and spasmodic pain in abdomen.

Such child usually suffers from diarrhoea, caused by taking sweets; the character of stool beins
watery, thin, white containing undigested food particles with clean tongue.

Such children may also have nocturnal enuresis due to worm irritation; turbid when passing, but furns
milky after sometime.
General Modalities :

Aggravation: After taking sweets, after anger, over-eating.

Amelioration: By lying on the abdomen,

Relations :

Compare: With Antim. crud., Antim. tart., Bryonia, Chamomilla, Kreosote, Silicea, Staphisagria in
irritability of children.

Cina is frequently to be thought of for children as an epidemic remedy, when adults require other
drugs.

Santonine sometimes cures worm affections when Cina seems indicated, but fails.
