Af
Ay

Ss

ee.
se
¥

?-

414 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

CONSTITUTION

Make-up of the body: It is best adapted to light-haried persons with lax skin and lax
muscles. In some cases, jaundice or yellow coloration of skin in marked.

Temperament: Easily frightened nature with hurried and rapid speech.

Relation with heat and cold: Mercurius is said to be the HUMAN BAROMETER.
Easily affected by both extremes of heat and cold (Antim.crud.—least affected, Fl.ac.).

Miasm: Syphilis. It is the KING OF ANTI-SYPHILITIC remedies.

1. All complaints are aggravated from sunset to sunrise i.e. whole night,
especially the bone pains, the characteristic symptom of all syphilitic medicines.

2. Profuse offensive perspiration with nearly every complaint, which gives no relief; on
the contrary it increases the suffering (Ver.alb. Hepar sulph._—profuse prespiration
gives relief—Natrum mur, Psonnum). poorinam

3. All discharges are very offensive, especially sweat and breath, The patient as a
whole smells offensive. Foulness and offensiveness run through the whole remedy.

4. Tremor and trembling from least exertion, especially in nervous disorders, such
— as paralysis agitans.

5. Creeping chilliness with fever is a peculiarity of this drug.

6. Discharges from mucous membrane are slimy in character.

7. Thirst : There is intense thirst for large quantity of cold water, although
the tongue is moist, salivated, large, flabby, showing imprint of teeth
(Chelidonium, Podo, Rhus tox} Dry tongue no thirst—Puls., Nux mos. Dry tongue
much thirst—Bryonia, Arsenic).

8. Every little injury suppurates (Hepar, Silicea, Graphites). Glandular swelling with
or without suppuration, especially if the suppurative discharges are too profuse and
offensive.

9. Desire: Milk, sweet, but these disagree: beer; alcohol. Aversion to meat, coffee and
butter.

10. Mind : Tired of life, weak memory, loss of will power. Slow and sluggish im
answering questions for fear of losing his reason. Great apprehension. Desire to flee

with nightly anxiety. Bad effects of fright, mania. Throws off the clothes at night
and scolds. But does not harm any one. Disgust for life.

11. Ailments from : Abuse of crude mercurial preparations; bad effects of sugar, stings
of insects, fright, suppressed foot-sweat, vapour of arsenic or copper. Supp:
gonorrhoea and/or syphilis.

12. In liver and lung complaints there is utter inability to lie on right side and there i§
aggravation by lying on right side.

13. The symptoms are worse by touch and pressure.
