106 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

—

(c) Offensiueness; OF ALL DISCHARGES such as breath, stool, urine, sweat and ulcers, is very
well-marked. It is very difficult for the doctor to examine the Baptisia patient as the
OFFENSIVENESS IS UNBEARABLE,

(d) Tongue: At first the tongue is white coated with red papillae in the middle, yellow brown and
dry and later it is dry, cracked and ulcerated.

(e) Delirium: Patient says that his body is scattered and he is two or three persons and cannot
cover them up properly. So he is trying to get those pieces together. The sensorium is so
blunted that the patient falls asleep even before he can answer a question or he sleeps in the
middle of an answer.

(f) Appearance of the Patient; The patient is very weak, prostrated, besotted and the face looks
like that of a drunkard. His face is flushed, dusky and dark red. Incapacity of thinking
anything. Unable to fix the mind on any work and is perfectly indifferent with aversion on
mental exertion. Decubitus may also be noticed.

Baptisia produces antibodies against typhoid bacillus and acts as a preventive medicine against
typhoid fever if given early and in low potencies.

The patient’s ileo-caecal region is very sensitive to touch and the bowels begin to rumble especially
in this region. The discharge of stool follows which is very offensive with profound prostration and high
rise of temperature.

Urine :
Urine is very offensive with dark-red colour and scanty.

Dysentery :
Baptisia can be thought of in dysentery with TYPHOID STATE, where stool contains decomposed

blood, which is very offensive, but often painless, with high rise of temperature. Dr, Farrington
recommends Baptisia for dysentery “when the DISCHARGES ARE OFFENSIVE, contain blood and are

attended by tenesmus, but with significant absence of pain, showing an alarming depression of vitality.”
Dr. Bell says, “Extended clinical observation has proved its value when dysentery assumes the typhoid
type”.

Throat:

Tonsils are swollen with very offensive discharge from the mouth, THROAT IS PAINLESS, but with
offensive breath. Soft palate is dark, red and putrid smell. Patient can Swallow liquid only. Least solid
food gags.

Some differentiating points in favour of Baptisia as compared to Ignatia, to enable us to make a
“snap shot” prescription are:

ignatia and Baptisia throat :

‘In addition to aggravation when not swallowing, there is sometimes aggravation when swallowing
liquids with Ignatia who gets relief from swallowing solids. This is somewhat like Lachesis, but is opposite
to Baptisia which can swallow liquid only whereas the least solid food gags.

}

