Calcarea Phosphorica 161

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1

. Defective bone development : Tendency of bones to curve, especially long bones,
like tibia, fibula, ulna and radius. Non-union and malunion of bones.

. Fontanelles remain open too long, especially posterior fontanelles (Anterior
fontanelles—Cale. carb.).

. Emaciated body with sunken flabby abdomen (Distended abdomen—Silicea).

4. Weakness and relaxation—child is slow in learning to walk, on account of weak

ankles, inability to stand.
. Craving for salted and smoked meat, ham, bacon, etc.
. Dyspepsia where pain is relieved by passing wind and temporary relief by eating.

. Complaints aggravate while thinking of them. (Baryta carb,, Gels.,Medo.,

Helonias dioica, Oxal.ac.).

. Fistual in ano alternates with chest complaints (Berb. vul., and Silicea).
. It is the most important remedy for chronic hydrocephalus and it may be given “as

preventive to the pregnant lady who had previously borne hydrocephalic babies.”
Says Grauvogl.

10. At every attempt to eat there is colicky pain in abdomen.

11. Numbness and crawling sensation in different organs.

12. Debility remaining after acute diseases (Psorinum).

13. Mind : Bad effects after grief and vexation. Peevish, forgetful. Involuntary sighing

(Ign.). Always wants to go somewhere. Complaints aggravates when thinking about
them (Baryta carb. Gels, Medo, Helon, Oxal. ac,—rev. Camphor and Helleborus).

14. Aliments from : Grief, disappointed love, over study, unpleasent news and getting

wet.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Of gastric origin, abdominal flatulence, and mental exertion.
Location; Headache maximum near the region of sutures.
Character of headache: Headache of school girls, at about puberty (Natrum mur., Psorinum,

Tuber.). Head is hot with smartingat roots of hair.

Modalities:
* Aggravation: On change of weather and after eating.
* Amelioration: During rest.

Abdomen :

Colicky pain in abdomen at every attempt to eat. Abdomen is sunken and flabby. During colic,

Soreness and burning yaround navel. Flatulence temporarily, relieved after sour eructation.
