594 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Sulphur is especially suited to lean, stoop-shouldered persons who
walk and sit stooping, walk stooping like an old man. STANDING IS THE WORST
POSITION FOR A SULPHUR PATIENT. They cannot remain standing; every standing
position is very uncomfortable and unbearable.

Dirty, filthy look of the body, prone to skin affections. This type of people have
redness of all the external orifices e.g. nostrils, lips, anus, etc.

Temperament; Nervous temperament,

Relation with heat and cold: Sulphur patient is very much sensitive to atmospheric
changes. Yet he is accepted as a HOT PATIENT.

Miasm: It is the king of anti-psoric remedies,
Diathesis: Scrofulous diathesis.

1. Complaints that are continually relapsing. Patient seems to get almost well,
when the disease returns again and again.

2. When carefully selected remedies fail to produce a favourable effect, especially in
acute diseases, it frequently serves to rouse the reactive powers of the system and
clears up the case.

3. Standing is the most uncomfortable position for a sulphur patient, they cannot
remain standing. Every standing position is uncomfortable and intolerable.

4. Though a hot patient, yet persistently refuses to take bath.
5. Burning anywhere. and everywhere on the body, general or local, is a great

symptom of Sulphur. It is correct to say that “BURNING IS FOR SULPHUR and

SULPHUR IS FOR BURNING”. Burning in the soles, palms vertex, eyes, nose,
mouth, stomach, all over the skin, in the parts on which he lies. The burning is

aggravated from the heat of bed and covering.
Nash’s trio of burners are Sulphur, Arsenic and Phosphorus amongst which
Sulphur is the leader.
The burning of Arsenic is violent and acute and is RELIEVED BY HEAT, excepting
head, with marked prostration and restlessness. Burning especially in acute
diseases (rev. of Sulphur) with mid-day and mid-night aggravation and has fear of
death.
The burning of Phosphorus is found in every organ, e.g. in internal organs, in spots,
along spine, in the palms, and soles; but generally in diseases of nervous system,
which is worst in the evening.

6. A weak empty all-gone sensation in the stomach (Sepia, Chelidonium,
Pulsatilla, Anacardium), especially about 11 a.m. (12 noon, Zincum met.). Cannot
wait for lunch.
