466 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

PARTICULARS

Eyes :
Hyperasthesia of retina. Severe pain in eyes, feel expanded.

Headache :

There is pressing pain in spots or sore, tender spots on the scalp. Band like sensation about head
and sense of heat. Headache before and during stool and better after stool. Worse left side, from wine,
lying after sleep, slightest touch and light while thinking about it.

G.|.tract disorder :

Causation : Eating sour fruits, apples, tomatoes, grapes, sugar and starchy food. Sensation of heat
in mouth, throat and stomach ultimately turning into an intense burning pain. Great pain in umbilical
region aggravates in evening & night. Stitching pains in liver relieved by deep breathing. Bitter and sour
eructation, worse at night. Epigastric pain relieved by passing flatus. Burning in small spots in abdomen.

Stool: Diarrhoea from coffee with watery, bloody, mucous stool.

Urinary-symptoms : The renal region is painful and tender with soreness of whole urinary tract.
When urinating there is pain in glans penis and burning in urethra. Frequent uri-natiorrwith copious urine
containing oxalate of lime. All the urinary symptoms are worse when thinking about them; even he
must urinate when thinking about it.

Male : Terrible neuralgic pains in spermatic cord- Testicles feel contused and heavy. Seminal
Vesiculitis.

Heart: On of the greatly neglected remedies for heart com-plaints.

“Sharp lancinating pains through the lower lobe of the left lung” is very characteristic
symptom in cases of Angina pectoris, also in pneumonia, pleurisy etc. There is most dif-ficult breathing

with choking feeling in larynx. Loss of voice alternates with palpitation. Stitching pain behind the sternum
going to shoulders and arms, worse on left side.

Pulse irreqular, intermittent, fast.

Concomitant: Blue nails and lips, cold sweat, paralysis of lower limbs, spasmodic respiration and
great weakness. Modality: Worse on slight exertion and motion and while thinking of ailments.

Extremities : There is numbness, weakness & tingling in extremities. Lower extremities blue, cold
& insensible. Draw-ing & lancinating pains shooting down extremities. Pain start from spine extend
through extremities. Muscular prostration, Myelitis. Multiple cerebral and posterior spinal sclerosis.

General Modalities :
Aggravation ; leftside, slightest touch, light, shaving. Thinking of complaints.

Relations :
Campare : Ars., Colch., Arg., Pic. acid.
