ALLEN'S KEY NOTE — an easy explanation 711

Chemical analogue (Dulc.) One medicine of vegetable kingdom becomes similar or parallel
to another medicine of mineral (chemical) kingdom.

Chilblains (Abrot, Agar, Petr, Zinc.) Inflammation, itching and swelling of the feet, toes or
fingers caused by mild frostbite or damp weather.

Chlorosis (Calc. os, Cycl, Puts) A form of hypochromic microcytic (iron deficiency) anaemia,
characterized by a great reduction in haemoglobin. The condition is observed chiefly in
girls, from puberty to the 3rd decade.

Chlorotic (Fer. M.,.Phos.) A person suffering from Chlorosis.

Cholera infantum (Podo) A disease of infant characterized by vomiting, profuse watery
diarrhoea, fever, great prostration and collapse.

Cholera Morbus (Ant. T., Bis., Cup., Sec. C., Ver-A.) An acute gastroenteritis, marked by
severe colic, vomiting and watery stools, occurring in hot weather.

Choleric temperament (Coff, Lack, Phos. A.) One marked by more or less general
pigmentation, high blood pressure, slow pulse, well developed muscle, strong appetites,
tenacity of purpose.

Chorea (Actaea, Caulo, Croc, Stram, Zin.) Disease manifested by irregular and spasmodic
movements, beyond the patient’s control. Even, voluntary movements are rendered jerky

and ungainly.

Choreic convulsions (Cicutd) Convulsions of the nature of chorea. Chorea is a disorder
characterised by irregular, spasmodic, involuntary movements of the limbs or facial
muscles.

Chromic blue condition (Lac. C.) Always depressed and gloomy.

Chubby (Kali Bi) Round & Plump.

Cicatrices (Caust, Fl. A., Graph, Sul. A.) Scar; fibrous tissue replacing the normal tissues
during the process of healing.

Cider vinegar (Acet. A., Carb. A.) Fermented vinegar.

Ciliary neuralgia (Actaea.) Pain of a severe, throbbing character in the . course of
distribution of a nerve supplying eye.

Clammy perspiration (Ver. V.) Sticky perspiration.

Clavus (Nat. M.) A severe pain in the head, sharply limited in area, as if caused by the
driving of a nail.

Clergyman’s sore throat (Arum. T., Dros.) Sore throat of religious preacher.

Climacteric (Con., Lack, Plum, Psor, Sab, Sang, Sep, Sulph, Sul-A, Trillia) A critical period
of life, occurring in women at the termination of the reproductive period, and
characterized by endocrine, somatic antf . psychic changes and ultimate menopause.

Clinkers (Kali. Bi.) Hard mass.
Clonic spasms (Cup, Plum.,) Repetitive muscular contraction.
