Lac Caninum 363

Very much painful, shifting pain constantly flying from one part to another, changing from side to
side every few hours or days. Pain extends to ear or shoots to ear.

Modalities:
* Aggravation: By empty swallowing and from touch.
¢ Amelioration: By cold and cold drinks.

In throat troubles, it differs from Lachesis where left side of the throat is affected. Both are very much
sensitive to touch. But in Lachesis, there is DARK BLACK, BLUISH, PURPLE COLOUR of the
membrane whereas in Lac can., there is SHINING. GLAZED APPEARANCE OF diphtheritic membrane.
in Lac can., the pain shoots to the ear. This is not found in Lachesis. Aggravation after sleep of Lachesis
is not present in Lac can.

Stomach :

Sinking feeling in epigastrium. Very hungry; cannot eat enough to satisfy. As hungry after eating as
before.

Rheumatism :
Location: Rheumatic pains in extremities and back especially of left side.
Sensation: Pain in the limbs as if beaten with rheumatic swelling of joints.

Character of pain: Shifting pain from one joint to another, flying from one part to another,
changing from side to side.

Modalities: Aggravation from motion and heat and amelioration from cold.

Menses :
Time: Too early.
Quantity: Too profuse.

Character of blood: Flow in gushes of bright red, viscid and stringy blood (Dark, black stringy,
Crocus sat.).

Pain: During menses there is severe pain in the abdomen in the left, which fly from side to side.
Modalitiy: Relieved by appearence of flow (Lach., Zincum).
Concomitants: Sore throat beigns and ends with menstruation. Breast painful, sensitive and swollen
before and during menses.
Breast :
Inflamed breast.
Sensation: Feels as if they would suppurate.

Breast painful and swollen before and during menses. There |s loss of milk while nursing without any
known cause. Serviceable in almost all cases when It it required to dry up milk.

Modalities: Aggravation from the least jar and towards evening and relief from hokting firmly
When going up or downstairs.

Sexual organs :

Are very sensitive to touch; easily excited from touch, pressure, on sitting or friction by walking
(Murex., Platina). Physometra (air passes from vagina), (Lyc. Sang. Nux mos.).
