312 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

The patient is quarrelsome; hard to get along with; nothing pleases him. Everybody
is disturbed, peevish, easily becomes angry even at least trifles. Anguish in the
evening and night, with thoughts of suicide, very much anxious without any reason.
The patient is very quick in action. Hypochondriacal, sad and depressed.

13. Aliments from : Abuse of mercury, quinine, suppressed eruption, cold in general,
gonorrhoea and syphilis.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Exposure to cold and suppressed eruption.
Location; One side of the head and right ternple.

Character: Headache when shaking the head or riding. Boring pain every morning. Constant
pressive pain on one side as from a plug or nail. Sealp is very sore and sensitive to touch.

Modalities: Aggravation from cold and amelioration from warmth, covering and in DAMP WET
WEATHER.

Concomitants: Vertigo with headache. Boils on the head and neck. Humid eruptions, feel very sore
and of foetid odour; itching and burning and sore on scratching.

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :

Mouth : There is offensive odour from mcvith. Gums and mouth are painfuil to touch; gums bleed
easily. Ulcers in gums and mouth. Toothache after drinking cold things or opening the mouth. Toothache
better in a warm room, from biting teeth together.

Throat : Pressive and constructive sensation in throat. Stitches in the throat which extend to ear.
Smarting soreness in throat, worse on swallowing. Sensation as if a fish bone or a splinter were
sticking in the throat. Also sensation of a plug or internal swelling in throat when swallowing.

Stomach : Putrid, bitter, sour, metallic taste arising from stomach. Eructation after eating. Stomach
is painful on walking as if it were hanging loose. Frequent, but momentary attack of nausea, followed by
vomiting of bile every morning. Feeling of distension in pit of stomach. There is heaviness and pressure
in stomach after a slight meal. Stiching pain in the region of liver when walking, coughing, breathing or
touching it. Colic with dry cough.

Stool : Stool is clay-coloured and soft; sour srneffing and white, containing undigested food particles.
Although stool is not hard, it is expelled with great difficulty. Usually diarrhoeic stool with tenesmus.

Urine : Urine is dark and hot; burning, corroding the prepuce. Bladder is weak; flow impeded. Urine

is voided slowly without force, drops vertically. Flow intermittent; cannot empty the bladder
thoroughly. The patient has to wait for a long time before he can pass urine (Nat. mur, Staph, Mur, acid).

Respiratory Symptoms :
Cough :
* Causation; From cold air and when any part of the body Is uncovered.

¢ Sensation : With cough there 's Splinter like sensation in throat as if a fish bone or plug is
sticking in the throat. The throat !s very much sensitive to touch.

* Character of cough: Dry cough, deep, rough, barking, DRY, CROUPY COUGH WITH
CHOKING, gagging and with great soreness of chest.
