Apis Mellifica 69

partly closed, as if benumbed. Pupils contracted or dilated, eyes very red. Face flushed. Child kicks off
coverings, heat of the room worsens his complaints.

Eyes:

Bag-like swelling under the lower eyelids; lids are red, oedematous, with burning and stinging
pain.

Lachrymation is hot. Conjunctiva bright red and puffy. Serous exudation with oedema and sharp
pains. There may also be intense photophobia. The patient cannot look at or tolerate light. Keratitis with

intense chemosis of ocular conjunctiva. Staphyloma of cornea following suppurative inflammation. Styes,
also prevent their recurrence.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

Tongue : Apis tongue is FIERY RED (Crot.hor., Fer. met., Pyr.). Swollen, sore and raw with
vesicles. Tongue feels scalded, red, wet, trembling; cancer of the tongue.

Stomach : Thirstless, sore feeling, craving for cold milk (Rhus tox.).
Abdomen : Ascites without thirst, peritonitis; tender, sensitive to touch.
Diarrhoea :
* Causation: Of drunkards, in eruptive diseases, especially if eruption is suppressed.
* Stool: Stool is watery, greenish, yellowish,.slimy, contains mucus or bloody mucus, offensive

and painless; involuntary with every motion, as though the anus is wide open (Phos., Secalecor.).
Constant oozing from anus, which the patient is unconscious and unaware of.

* Before stool: There is much rumbling of flatus, sudden darting pain in the rectum, urging.

* During stool: Griping tenesmus. Rawness and soreness in the anus with much flatus; frequent
painful urination; nausea, vomiting, backache and frontal headache.

¢ After stool: Rawness in the anus, heat and throbbing in rectum, with sensation as if plugged;
tenesmus with passage of blood; faint and exhausted,

* Concomitants: No appetite; little or no thirst. Tongue is shining, dry, red, cracked, sore, bruised
sore feeling of abdominal walls, with excessive tenderness, urine frequent, scanty or suppressed;
strangury.

Urinary system :
Incontinence of urine with great irritation of the parts. Frequent, painful; canscarcely retain the urine
for a moment.

: Urine is scanty, coming only in drops; bloody, foetid, albuminous with casts. May be very dark and
rothy.

Before urination: As soon as a few drops collect In the bladder, the urge comes; constant and
inffectual urge. Much straining before the urine starts coming.

During urination: Scalds severely, stinging pain, strangury. Last drop burns and smarts.

Chest :

Hoarseness, dyspnoea, breathing hurried and difficult. OEdema of larynx, feels as if he could not
draw another breath; suffocation and short cough.
