ARTEMISIA VULGARIS

Mugwort Compositae

Catalepsy. Chorea. Convulsions. Epilepsy.
Somnambulism.

Like the other Artemisias this remedy has a
prominent place in convulsive diseases. It is a
principal remedy for epilepsy, catalepsy, spasmodic
twitchings as is seen in chorea, hysterical fits,
eclampsia and convulsion of various types such as
occur in hydrocephalus, teething etc. Its indications in
epilepsy are as follows :

1) Epilepsy after fright or grief or bad news, after
blow on the head, after masturbation and with
menstrual disturbances or with teething.

2) Attacks frequently repeated, then followed by a
long J, interval of rest.

3) Several attacks of epilepsy in the same day.
4) Epilepsy without aura.

5) Attack accompanied or followed by profuse offensive sweat; by seminal ejaculations.

6) Fever : Profuse sweat, having a peculiar fetid, cadaverous or garlic like odour is a
characteristic of the remedy.

In epilepsy Artemisia Vulgaris can be compared with Aethusa Cyn., Bufo., Cal.
Garb., Cicuta V., Cuprum Met., Lachesis, Silicea., Aethusa Cynapium—Useful in
eases of children indicated by epileptic spasms with clenched thumbs, red face, eyes
turned downwards, pupils fixed and dilated ; foam at the mouth, jaws locked ; pulse
small, hard quick. After attack sleepiness & prostration.

Bufo : Aura starts from sexual organs or from solar plexus. Epilepsy from
masturbation or self abuse, The attacks usually occur during sleep at night, during
coition and at the time of menses.

Calearea Carb : It is useful in cases of children particularly in epilepsy occurring in
scrofulous diathesis, Aura may begin in solar plexus and move upward or downward inte
the uterus and limbs. In some cases aura causes a feeling as if a mouse was running on
the arm.

Cicuta.Virosa : It is indicated by strange movements of head and trunk, violent
distortion of face, locked jaw, bluish countenance, protrusion of eyes, vomiting, a weak [
and scarcely perceptible pulse, great venous congestion of the abdominal viscera and |

er

