ett Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

—_—=

Location: Right sided headache.
Sensation: Head feels too large, as if it would burst.

Character of headache: Dull, heavy, throbbing, occipital headache. The whole head is in a state of
congestion. The headache is so severe in the back of head that it is impossible to raise it from the pillow,

Headache extends into the eyes; bilious headache.

Modalities: Aggravation: During sleep; the longer he sleeps the more severe is the headache.
Throat :

In malignant diphtheria and scarlatina, this remedy is very useful.

Location: Right sided throat affection.
Sensation: There is sense of constriction.

Look of the throat: Oedematous and gangrenous look of fauces or tonsils. Fauces look swollen,
dark red with much prostration.

The patient can swallow liquid only.
Modality: Aggravation from empty swallowing.

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :

Abdomen : Violent bilious vomiting, stomach is unable to retain any food. Vomiting of food,

vomiting of blood, dark, coffee-ground vomiting. Constant nausea and vomiting, every month after
menstruation.

In cancer of stomach, with vomiting of blood, dark coffee-ground vomiting. There is intolerance of
clothing around the stomach. Cannot lie orrright side.

Stool : Ulceration of bowels; haemorrhage from the bowels Diarrhoea from noxious effluvia, of
septic origin, from foul water and food.

Character of stool: Black, thin, offensive, like coffee-ground there is intestinal haemorrhage.
Blood oozes from rectum when standing on-walking. The character of blood is DARK, fluid and non-
coaqulable (Lachesis).

Liver : In malignant jaundice, haematic rather than hepatic. Pain in the region of liver with yellow
colour of the face and conjunctiva. The abdomen is distended, hot and tender with constant nausea and
vomiting, violent vomiting of food, Stomach is unable to retain anything. Billious vomiting. Intolerance
of clothing around the stomach with faintness and sinking at stomach.

Desire for simulants and aversion to meat.

Female Genital Organs :

Menses : This remedy is suited to dysmenorrhoea and prolonged menorrhagia. There is prolonged
menses with copious dark, liquid blood which oozes out all the time. There is severe pain extending

down to thighs; painful drawing in uterine ligament as though uterus would drop out. Vicarious
menstruation, nose-bleed instead of menses.

Skin : Causation: Dissecting wounds, insect stings and bad effects of vaccination.

There is great tendency to carbuncles and blood boils, pustular eruption, post vaccination
eruptions, and effects of vaccination. Blood boils and eruptions are surrounded by purplish mottled skin
and oedema. Great sensitiveness of skin of right half of the body. There ts swelling and dis-colouration of

Whole body. Yellow colour of skin. There is purpura haemorrhagica. Blood comes out from all the
Orifices, skin, nails, etc., with bloody sweat, Cold and dry skin. Wants open air.
