138 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

a

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation: Due to draught of cold air; from constipation, from ironing.

Character of pain: Bursting type, as if brain is going to burst, with stitching and sticking pain. Feels
that the contents of cranium would be pushed out.

Modalities: Aggravation FROM MOTION, in the morning, when first opening the eyes and relieved
by PRESSURE and lying on painfuf side.

Concomitants: Dry white coating of tongue and thirst for large quantity of cold water at long
intervals.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

Mouth : As there is great dryness of the mucous membrane of the whole alimentary canal, the lips
are dry, parched and cracked. Dryness of the mouth is well-marked, with great thirst for large
quantity of cold water at long intervals.

Stomach : There is pressrue in the stomach, as if a stone is lying at the pit of stomach. Dyspepsia
with soreness in stomach is often met with. There is nausea and faintness when rising up. Vomiting of
bile immediately after eating, pain in the abdomen, aggravated after food, not relieved by pressure.

N.B. Most of the pains of Bryonia are relieved by pressure except gastric pain.

Constipation :
* Causation: As Bryonia causes dryness of mucous membrane of colon, it produces a very bad
* Sensation.: No inclination or desire for stool,
¢ Character of stool: Stool is DRY, HARD KNOTTY, AS IF BURNT.

e Concomitants: Headache due to constipation, with dry tonaye; and thirst for large quantity of
cold water at long intervals.

Diarrhoea :
* Causation: After taking cold food and drinks (Puls., Arsenic, Argentum nit.), when the days are
hot and nights are cold, during the spell of hot weather.

* Time: Morning diarrhoea, as soon as the patient gets up from the bed and puts the feet on the
floor (Nat. sulph.).

¢ Character of stool: Dirty, watery stool, containing undigested food particles; very much acrid
* Modalities:

Aggravation: From SLIGHTEST MOTION,

Amelioration: By COMPLETE REST.
* Concomitants: With dry tounge and great thrist for large quantity of cold water at long intervals

Respiratory symptoms :

Nose : Vicarious menstruation, nose bleeds at the time of menses. If the menstrual flow is checked
suddenly from cold, nose-bleed will appear, Dryness of nose with frequent sneezing and loss of smell.
