376 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

due to reflex states dependent on those pathological conditions. It leads to forceful
contraction and palpitation of heart.

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Especially suited to unmarried woman who suffers from uterine
troubles.

Temperament: Irritable, nervous and hysterical temperament.
Relation with heat and cold: Very hot patient.
Miasm: Psora is in the background.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

L

Affects principally left side of the body (Thuja, Lach., Lac can., Berberis vulgaris,
Colocynth)

. Hot Patient: Wants cold air, open air and cool room (Puls., Sabina, Nat. mur.).,
. Bearing down sensation, dragging sensation in abdomen and pelvis as if all the

organs would escape (Murex, Sepia, Bell.),

. Consolation from others aggravates the sufferings (Nat. mur., Ign., Silicea, Sepia,

Halleborus.,—Consolation relieves, Pulsatilla).

. Frequent urging to urinate.
. Shifting pain; pain flying from one part to another.
. Pulsation all over the body (Kreosote) and full, distended feeling as if blood would

burst through the vessels.

. Sensation as if the heart was grasped in a vise (Cactus) as if blood had all gone to

heart; feels full to bursting, inability to walk erect. Clasped and unclasped feeling
in heart as if by an iron hand. Rapid heart-beat, 150 to 170 per minute.

. Mind : It produces various types of mental symptoms which are as follows: -

Weeping disposition; can hardly avoid weeping (Puls., Sepia, Med.); very much
timid and fearful.

There is profound depression of spirit; patient is quite indifferent about what is
being done for her.

Consolation aggravates the complaints.

Furthermore, there is great irritability of mind. She can hardly speak a decent word
to anybody. She will snap even when spoken kindly to. She is so irritable that her
friends cannot pacify her.

There is great fear of being alone, about her diseases as if she is incurable, fear of
organic disease of heart and insanity etc.

The patient is very much hurried and worried; desires to do something in a hurried
manner; there is aimless hurried motion. There is an irresistible desire to curse and
swear (Anac, Lac can., Nit.ac.).
