456 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

5.

6.

10.
11.

17.

Literary and studious persons who suffer from lack of exercise, always staying at
home, having sedentary life with gastric troubles, especially of drunkards.

Sleep : There is irresistible desire to sleep in the evening. Cannot keep from falling
asleep while sitting or reading even hours before bed time and consequently the
patient is compelled to retire and sleep. Nevertheless, he awakes at about 3 or 4
a.m. and then falls into a dreamy sleep early in the morning from which he is hard
to arouse and if aroused, then he feels tired and weak, unrefreshing sleep in the
morning (rev. Pulsatilla).

. Frequent and ineffectual desire for stool and urine (Colch.,Con.), passes small

quantity each time, with temporary relief and satisfaction with digestive
disturbances and portal congestion and hepatic troubles.

. Convulsion with consciousness (Stram.), worse by touch and movement, light and

odour.

. Functional disturbances in the domain of sensory and motor nerve fibres, with

tendency to reflex phenomena taking precedence over the voluntary.
Tonic and clonic spasm of limbs and muscles.

Great tendency to take cold and aversion to cold air. The patient is compelled to
CLOSE THE DOORS AND WINDOWS AND COVER UP THE BODY.

. There is lack of balance.
13.
14.
15.
16.

Brain fag, full of hysterical manifestations.

Constipation due to irregular peristalsis of intestinal tract.

A stasis of the portal system occurs with consequent troubles therefrom.
Desire for stimulants, pungent and bitter things, alcohol and fat food.
Aversion to bread, water, coffee and tobacco and ordinary food and drink.

Mind : The peculiar mental symptoms, ALL CONSEQUENT UPON THE
MODERN SO CALLED CIVILIZED LIFE AND HIGH LIVING, originating from

irritation of the nervous system and brain, readily serve to identify Nux vomica
from others.

The patient is VERY IRRITABLE, careful, fastidious, zealous and is despondent
and quarrelsome, spiteful and malicious.

He is very nervous and melancholic, impatient, of an ardent character, disposed to
anger, spite and deception. Egoism prevails supreme in him.

Anxiety and irritability with inclination to commit suicide prevail, though the
patient is afraid to die.

Wants to be alone (Ign., Gels., Sepia).

Easily becomes angry at very silly matters, trifling ailments are unbearable; every
harmless word offends.

Ill-humoured, finds fault with everybody and scolds them. Mental derangement in
drunkards. Low muttering delirium.
