ALLEN’S KEY NOTE — an easy explanation 715

Erysipelas Phlegmonas (Graph) Inflammatory condition of connec-tive tissue without pus
formation.

Erythema (Canth) Reddening of the skin.
Erythism (Sep, Sil) Redness.

Eustachian tube (Merc, D.)A canal, partly bony, partly cartilaginous, measuring 38.0 to
50.8 mm in length, connecting the pharynx with the tympanic cavity. It allows air to pass
into the middle ear, so that the air pressure is kept even on both sides of the eardrum.

Euthanasia (Amy 1. N.) A quiet, painless death.

Exanthema (Apis, Bry, Hell. N. Tereb) A general disease accompanied by an eruption on the
skin, such as measles, an eruptive fever.

Excruciating (Hypericum) Very severe.

Excrescences (Merc. S.) Abnormal growth.

Exhilarated (Med.) Enliven.

Exostosis (Ruta.) Bony tumour.

Extorting cries (Lac. D.) Causing cries.

Exuberent granulation (Nit. A., T.huj, Sab.) Excessive growth of granular tissue.

F

False Step (Spig.) Stumble.

Fatty degeneration (Aur, M., Lac. D.) Degeneration of tissues which results in appearance
of fatty droplets in the cytoplasm; found especially in diseases of Liver, Kidney and Heart.

Fauces (Kali. Bi) The opening from the mouth into the pharynx, bounded above by the soft
palate, below by the tongue, pillars of the fauces lie laterally and enclose the tonsil.

Felons (Anth, Taran, Dios.) Paronychia; i.e. Inflammation of the structures in the distal
phalanx of a finger or toe, either those surrounding the nail or the bone itself.

Femoral hernia (Plum.) Protrusion through the femoral canal along side the femoral blood
vessels as they pass into the thigh.

Fidgety (Apis., Graph, Med, Phos, zinc. M.) Spasmodic movement of the limbs.
Fidgety hands (Kali Br.) Nervous movement of hands.

Figwarts (Staph, Thuj.) A projecting growth on the external genitals or at the anus,
consisting of fibrous overgrowths covered by thickened., epithelium usually produced by
the irritating discharges in chronic. venereal disease.

Fingers “go to sleep” Numbness of the fingers,
Fish brine (Med, Sanic.) Fish socked insalt solution.
Fistula (Calc. P.) An abnormal communication between two body surfaces or cavities.
