Colchicum Autumnale 231

Urinary System :

Pain in the region of kidney. More the urging, more the discharge of urine. Urine is COPIOUS.
WATERY DARK, TURBID AND INKY containing albumen and sugar.

Tenesmus of bladder and burning in urethra.

Urine has sour smell and is acidic in reaction.

Scanty urine with offensive smell may also be found.
Decomposed blood may sometimes pass with the urine.
Urethra hurts as if it is raw.

Gout or Rheumatism :
Causation: Getting wet, heat of summer, checked prespiration and exertion.

Location: Rheumatic pain of the clavicle, neck, shoulders, arms and back, preventing motion of
head.
Pain in the elbow joint, forearm, waist and ligaments of finger joints and of the great toes.

Pain with lameness in the arms which makes it impossible for the patient to hold the lightest thing.

Character of pain: Flying pain in the hips. Tearing pain in thighs and knee joints, with swelling
in patella, tibia, calf muscles, ankles and toes. Tingling pain in toes. Patient screams with pain when
touched.

The striking feature is that the pain has tendency to move about froni one joint to another;
from one side to the other, from below upwards or from above downwards; with or without swelling.

Concomitants: Nausea, faintness at the smell of cooking food. Passes inky urine or pale urine.

Great distension of abdomen. Sensation as if the abdomen would burst with gas. Involvernent of heart
and pericardium with dropsical condition of hands, feet and abdomen.

Modalities: Aggravation by motion, summer weather, autumn and touch. Better by rest and lying
down.
General Modalities :

Agagravation: From cold damp weather, smell of food, MOTION, during autumn, mental emotion or
exhaustion and effects of hard study.

Amelioration: By warmth and lying down quietly.
Relation :

Compare: Bryonia in vomiting. If the patient lies perfectly stilt, the disposition to vomit is less urgent.
Every motion renews it (Bry.).

Antidoted by: Bell., Camphor, Cocculus, Nux vom., Puls, Spigelia,
It antidotes: Thuja.
