488 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

2. The cramping pain causes numbness and tingling in the parts. The pain increases
gradually to an acme and then gradually declines (Stannum, Syphilinum).

3. Nymphomania: Aggravates in lying—-in women; excessive sexual development,
especially in virgins; vaginismus, spasm and constriction.

4. Mental symptoms appear as physical symtpoms disappear and vice versa.

5. Constipation while travelling, after lead poisoning or from inertia of bowels.

There is frequent unsuccessful urging; stool adheres to rectum and anus like soft
clay (Alum.).

Constipation when Nux fails (When Platina fails Plumbum comes in).
6. “Superioirty complex” is of the highest degree in Platina.

7. Mind ; Causation: Mental disturbances after fright, grief, vexation, onanism and
pride, especially in hysterical women who are suffering from uterine troubles.
One of the most characteristic mental symptoms of this drug is PRIDE AND OVER

ESTIMATION OF ONE’S SELF. She imagins that she belongs to and is born in a
high family and all others are of lower category.

“Superiority complex” of the highest degree runs through the whole remedy. She
looks down upon others with contemptuous eyes and thinks everyone else is very
much inferior to her.

There is mental delusion as if everyone and everything is inferior to herself. All
persons physically and mentally are smaller than her, and that she is large and
superior to all others She imagines that all about her are second to none and there
is sensation of herself growing larger in every direction

There are HYSTERICAL PATIENTS, who are alternately gay and sad. One moment
excessively happy and the next moment sad and gloomy (Crocus sat., Puls., Ign.,
Nux mos.). Can cry easily any moment. Such ladies are very much arrogant, proud
and naughty.

There is satiety of life with taciturnity and fear of death. Trifling things produce
profound vexation. Anxious and serious over silly matters (Anacardium, Baryta
carb.).

There is fear of death, with loathing of life. Fears that something serious will
happen to her.,

Trembling of all the limbs during even a little exertion.

“Mental symptoms appear as physical symptoms disappear and vice versa” is the
most rare, uncommon and characteristic sympiom of this drug.

8. Ailments from : Fright, grief, vexation, onanism, pride, sexual excess and
masturbation.
