stramon.—«. 591

Furthermore, he has peculiar imagination that he is many persons; he is lying
crosswise; his head is in many pieces and isjying scattered about, etc.

There is strange delusions about his own identity. Thinks that he is very tall, double
or a part is missing, etc.

The patient feels that he is seeing ghosts and dangerous animals, hears strange
voices and he is in communion with spirits and talks in an unnatural language.
When the child is reprimanded its pupils become dilated. Hydrophobia.

12. Ailments fom : Shock, fright, sun, child-birth, suppression of secretions and
excretion (e.g. menses, urine, etc.).

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache is caused by shock, Sun's heat or fright.
Location: There is intolerable pain in forehead and over the eyebrows.

Sensation: There is boring pain in forehead and tempjes. Head feels as if scattered about in many
pieces.

Modalities: Aggravation: After sleep, in darkness or looking at bright object.
Relieved: By warmth.

Concomitants: Preceded by obscure vision. Rush of blood to head. Raises the head frequently from
the pillow. Vertigo with tendency to-fall forward and to left.

Eyes:

Eyes are wide open, prominent and brilliant; pupils are widely dilated; insensible; contortion
of eyes and eyelids. Pupils dilate when child is reprimanded. Loss of vision, complains that it is dark and
calls for light. Small objects look large. All objects look black.

Face :

Face is red and hot with cold hands and feet. There is circumscribed redness on the cheeks. (Sang.).
Blood rushes to face with an expression of terror. Pale face, sometimes facial expression shows as if
smiling (Risus sardonicus). Mouth is dry, with viscid saliva; yet aversion to water. Stammering tendency.
The patient has to exert himself a long time before he can utter a word. Cannot swallow on account of
spasm of glottis; chewing motion of the mouth,

The patient vomits persistently mucus and green bile as soon as he raises head from the pillow.
Convulsion :

There is convulsion with consciousness (Nux vom.) which is very striking in this drug. Graceful
thythmic motion, convulsion especially of upper extremities and upper part of the body. There is
twitching and jerking of single muscle or a group of muscles (Acon., Agaricus, Cicuta, Zincummet.).
Chorea with violent pain in left hip, Trembling and twitching of tendons.

The convulsive attack is aggravated by dazzling and shining lights and objects.

The patient has fear of water with excessive aversion to liquids. Spasmodic contraction of throat.
Hydrophobia.
