327

tia Amara
igs

Finely sensitive mood and delicate conscience.

Inconsistent, impatient, irresolute and quarrelsome.

Good-natured when well, but quickly disturbed by slightest emotion and easily
offended.

Persons physically and mentally exhausted by long CONTINUED AND
CONCENTRATED GRIEF.

There is great anxiety as if some unpardonable crime has been committed by her.
Fearful and timid; busy and restless. Commits mistakes on talking and writing.

Child when reprimanded, scolded, or sent to bed, gets sick and has convulsion in
sleep (Cham., Staph.).

Consolation aggravates all troubles (Hell., Nat. mur., Lil. tig., Silicea, Sepia).

9. Ailments from : Anger, grief, disappointed love, fear, jealously, suppressed sexual
desire, bad news, vexation with reserved displeasure, suppressed mental suffering
from shame and mortification, TOBACCO, coffee, tea and alcohol.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation: From TOBACCO, anger, grief, sorrow, bad news and suppressed mental sufferings.

Character of pain: There is congestive and throbbing headache. Heavy headache as if a nail was
driven through the side, relieved by lying on it. Throbbing pain at occiput with every beat of heart.

Modalities: Headache is worse on stooping, jar and motion by SMOKING OR SMOKING
TOBACCO worse when pressing for stool relieved by lying on painful side and by profuse urination (Gels
, Silicea, Sanguinaria, Ver. alb.).-

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : While talking or chewing bites inside of cheek. Stitching pain in the palate, extending to
ear. Toothache from drinking coffee or from tobacco smoking, sour test in mouth.

Stomach : Empty feeling in the pit of stomach, not relieved by eating. Sinking in stomach relieved
by taking deep breath. There is sweat on face or on the tip of the nose on a small spot only while eating,
Cramps in stomach. All-gone sensation in the stomach, with much flatulence and hiccough; worse from
touch, contact, jar and motion, flatulent colic; desire for stool felt in the epigastrum. (Ver. alb.). Sour
€ructation.

Constipation : Obstinate constipation in habitual coffee drinkers from carriage riding; desire for
stool felt in the upper abdomen. Excessive urge and desire for stool; but there is great pain in rectum
which compels the patient to refrain from going to closet. There may be prolapse of anus from moderate
Straining, lifting or stooping. PROLAPSE OF ANUS IS MORE WHEN THE STOOL IS LOOSE.

Haemorrhoids : Piles protrude with every soft stool, not with hard stool; have to be replaced, better
by walking. Sharp stitching pain in the anus which shoots up to rectum. Pain remains for hours
after stool Pain in small circumscribed spot. (Kali. bich.).
