Coffea Grufla 227

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1) Oversensitiveness of all the senses ; sight, hearing, smell, taste, touch etc. become
more acute.

2) Unusual activity of mind and body.

3) Pain : Great sensitiveness to pain, seem almost insupportable, driving patient to
despair, tossing about in anguish (In Aconite, Chamomilla and Nux Vomica
there is also irritability of high degree, But the difference is that Aconite is fearful
and anxious, dreads things ; Chamo. is spiteful & uncivil, Nux Vomica is sullen,

keeps the eyes shut, does not wish to speak or have anything to do with anyone ;
and Coffea on the other hand is wakeful, on the constant move.)

4) Sleeplessness with physical excitement through mental exaltation.

5) Hasty eating & drinking (Bell., Hep.)
6) Headache from over — mental exertion, thinking & talking, worse in open air.

7) Toothache relieved by holding ice water in the mouth but returns when water
becomes warm (Bis., Bry., Puls.; Cham.)

8) Mind : Mental symptoms of coffea are very peculiar & characteristic. Coffea is
characterised by extreme sensitiveness, nervous agitation and restlessness. Great
and unusual activity of the mind and body is an important point with Coffea
cruda. The mind is full of ideas & is active with plans & fancies. There is
oversensitiveness of all the senses such as sight, hearing, taste, touch, smell etc.
and are equally acute. Due to all this mental exaltation patient becomes sleepless ;
there is wide awake condition with impossibility to close the eyes. He feels pains
intensely, it seems almost insupportable and drives him to despair. He, tosses about
in agony. He is a great subject to ailments arising from sudden emotion and
pleasurable surprise. He weBps from delight. Weeping alternates with laughing. He
is hasty especially in eating and drinking.

9) Ailments from : Effects of sudden emotion, especially pleasurable ones, fear or
fright, wine, overfatigue and long journeys, overmental exertion, thinking, talking.

PARTICULARS

Headache:

Causation : Overmental exertion, talking, thinking, effects of sudden emotion especially pleasurable
Ones,

Location : One sided headache.

Sensation : There is sensation as from a nail driven into the brain ; as if brain were torn or dashed to
Pieces ; as if head was too small, as if head would burst and fly to pieces if she moved.

Modality ; Agg.—Mental exertion, thinking, open air.
Ame.—By warmth.
