158 Text Book of MATERIA MEDIC,

6) Carries & necrosis of bones with boring pain & heat in parts resulting from
congenital syphilis.

7) It is a good medicine for immature cataract & corneal opacity.

8) Lumbago due to strain, aggravation at rest and ameliora-tion after moving a little |

& from warmth.
9) Discharges from the suppurative processes are offensive, thick & greenish yellow.

10) Mind : Great depression; groundless fear of financial ruin. Dispostion to set a
higher valueon money than natural to him.

PARTICULARS

Head & Scalp :

Hard excreM@enses on the scalp. Cephal : haematoma. Ulcers of the scalp with callous, hard edges,
Cracking noise in head. Blood tumours of newborn infants on a rough bonybase.

Eyes :
Dimness of vision on overstraining the eyes. Conjunctivitis. Styes. Enlarged meibomian glands.
Tumours on the eyelids, Flickering & sparks before the eyes. Subcutaneous palpebral cysts.

Ears:

Calcareous deposits on the tympani; Sclerosis of ossicles & petrous portion of temporal bone, with

deafness. Chronic Suppuration of middle ear. Copious, offensive, thick, greenish, lumpy, Yellow nasal

i . Osseous growths. Adenoid growths in postnasal space & pharynx, hypertrophy of Luchka’s
tonsils.

Face:

Hard swelling on the cheek with pain or toothache. Hard swelling on jaw bone. Carries of malar
bone with oozing of dark, offensive bloody fluid, swelling of bone on outer surface.

Mouth :

Gum-boil with hard swelling on the jaw, stony hard swelling on the jaw bone. Ulceratians of mouth
& throat manifesting congenital hereditary syphilis.

Tongue :
Cracked appearance of the tongue with or without pain. Indurations of tongue, hardening after
inflammation.

Teeth :

Delayed dentition in children. Enamel of teeth rough & deficient. Unnatural looseness of the teath
with or without pain. Teeth become loose in their sockets.

Throat :

Follicular sore throat, plugs of mucus are continually forming in the crypts of the tonsils. Pain &
burning in throat better by warm drinks & worse from cold drinks. Hypertrophy of Luschka’s tonsil. Uvulé
relaxed causing irritation, tickling & cough.

,
