658 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Schuessler wrote a lot of books during his time. In 1873, he published his first article
on his healing system in the General homeopathic Journal, and titled it ‘An Abridged
Therapy based on physiology and cellular pathology’.

He had lot of ardent followers like Elizabeth Hubbard, Dr Stephenson, Dr. M
Blackmore and others. In 1958, Dr Blackmore popularized Schuessler’s works in his
book- ‘Colloids- A textbook for physicians’ He also refined Schuessler’s salts by adding
more tissue salts besides the existing twelve (except for sodium chloride).

The most interesting account of the application of Schuesslers’ remedies is to be
found in the book titled “Nature’s 12 Magic Healers: The Amazing Secrets of Cell Salts”
by Lionel Rolfe and Nigey Lennon. This book contains comments on the value of these
salts by two eminent homeopathic physicians, Dr. J. H. Renner MD and Dr. William E.
S. Jackson MD. Schuessler died in the year 1898, but his works have remained immortal.

HISTORY OF THE TISSUE REMEDIES

Samuel Hahnemann was the first to establish the great importance of the inorganic
cell salts as medicines of a high order thorough investigation into their pathogenetic
effects and therapeutic uses. It was his provings of Lime, Salt, Potash and Silicia that
showed what vast store-houses of medicinal force these inorganic substances are,
although wholly inert in their crude state. This prepared the way for the development of
the rest of the Tissue Remedies. He was the first who pointed out how these forces could
be unlocked and directed for therapeutic purposes,

Later, in 1832, attention was called in a paper published in Stapf's Archiv to the
great importance as remedies of all the “ essential component parts of the human body,”
and again, in the same Journal, in 1846; “All constituents of the human body principally
act on those organs wherein they have a function. All fulfill their functions when they are
the cause of symptoms.” This comes from the pen of that remarkable genius in the field
of Materia Medica — Constantine Hering.

Later on, Grauvogl, in his Text-Book, taking some notice of these remarks, amplified
them. But it remained for Dr. Schiissler, of Oldenburg, Germany, to develop these
suggestions and make the idea foreshadowed in them the basis of a “new system.” In
March, 1873, an article, entitled “ Abridged Homoeopathic Therapeutics” from his pen,
was published in a Gennan Homceopathic journal, in which he says : “About a year ago I
endeavored to discover by experiments on the sick if it were not possible to heal them,
provided their diseases were curable at all, with those substances that are the natural,
i.e., the physiological function-remedies.” Of this no special notice seems to have been
taken, until, five months subsequently, Dr. Lorbacher, of Leipzig, came out in the same
journal with some critical considerations of it. This was followed by a reply from
Schussler, which ran through seven numbers, giving a more detailed account of this
“Abridged System of Homoeopathic Therapeutics,” the important features of which are
incorporated in this work.

The original communication from Schussler to the German journal was translated

into English, and published first in the Medical Investigator, May, 1873, and soon
afterwards in a small work, by Dr. C. Hering, entitled the “ Twelve Tissue Remedies,”
