438 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

14. Ailments from : Bad effects of anger, grief, vexation, excessiue use salt, bread,
quinine, fright, loss of vitg! fluid, sexual excess profuse menses, etc.
disuppoirted Jove
PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Exposure to sun, eye-strain, taking too much salt and loss of vital fluid.
Location: Left sided clavus.
Sensation: As if a thousand little hammers are knocking on the brain.

Character of pain: Bursting type of headache, which is chronic in nature. Headache starts with
blindness, zig zag vision (Gels., Kali bich.). Such type of headache is usually found in school going girls,
who are emaciated, anaemic and chlorotic.

Modalities:
* Aggravation from heat of sun, sunrise to sunset, especially from 10 to 11 a.m.
* Amelioration: Relieved by perspiration (Psorinum, zincum) and open air.

Concomitants: Blindness before headache, patient having an anaemic and chlorotic look, mapped
tongue and great craving for salt.

Respiratory Organs :

Nose, violent and fluent coryza, with breathing difficulty, stoppage of nose. Discharge is thin and
watery, like the white of an egg; violent sneezing, loss of smell and taste.

Cough : Natrum mur. is especially indicated in marked coryza and cough.
* Sensation: Sticking sensation in throat.
* Character of sputa: Sputa is thick, whitish, watery, like the white of an egg.
* Modality: Aggravation: More in the morning and on the seashore.

* Concomitants: Inability to swallow. Whenever he coughs, tears stream down the face
(Euphrasia). MAPPED TONGUE with red insular patches. Loss of taste in mouth.

Heart : Fluttering sensation of the heart. Weak faint feeling. The heart's pulsation shakes the whole
body.
Modalities:
* Aggravation from lying down and at the seashore.
* Amelioration by lying on right side (Sulph).

Urinary Symptoms :

Slow action of the bladder. Urine comes slowly, dribble out. Lack of force in the flow of urine.
Involuntary urination especially when walking, coughing, laughing (Causticum, Puls, Mur. acid).

Patient cannot pass urine in presence of others (Hepar).

Has to wait for a long time before passing urine (Hepar, Staph., Mur. acid), Cutting pain in urethra
after urination (Thuja, Sars.). Sensation as if more urine has remained. Frequent urging for urination;
must pass urine very often.
