Calcarea Fluoricum 159

Stomach :

Vomiting of undigested food. Acute indigestion from fatigue & brain fag. Cutting pain in liver better
by motion.

Abdomen & Stool:

Constipation, inability to expel faeces. Fissure of the anus, intensely sore crack near the lower end of
the bowel. Bleeding haemorrhoids. Itching of anus as from pin worms. Internal or blind piles frequently
with pain in back generally far down on the sacrum & constipation. Piles with presure of blood to the

head. Diarrhoea in gouty subjects.
Male Sexual Organs :

Constant dribbling of seminal & prostatic fluid with dwindling of the testes. Indurated & nodular
testes. Hydrocele.

Female Sexual Organs :

Displacements of the uterus. Dragging pain in the region of the uterus & thighs, bearing down of the
uterus. Varicose veins of vulva. Uterine fibroid. Excessive menses with bearing down pain.

Circulatory organs :

Aneurism at an early stage may be reduced or kept in check by this remedy & Ferrum Phos provided
that the idodide of potash had not been taken. Chief remedy for vascular tumours with dilated vessels.

Enlargement & hypertrophy of heart. Varicose & enlarged veins.
Neck :

Indurated glands of stony hardness. Small goitre.
Back :

Chronic cases of lumbago; worse on beginning to move & better by continued motion. Tired feeling
& pain in lower part of the back, with sensation of fullness & burning with constipation.

Extremities :

Ganglia, or ewing’s tumour at the back of the wrist. Gouty enlargement of the joints of the fingers.
Inflammation of knee joint. Chronic synovitis. Cracking in the joints. Osseous growths & enlargements
of bones with or without carries, particularly of traumatic origin.

Sleep :

Vivid dreams with sense of impending danger, unrefreshing sleep.

Skin :

Fissures or cracks on the palms of hands or hard skin with formation of crusts. Fissure of anus.
Whitlow. Indolent fistulous ulcers, Secreting thick yellowpus. Swellings or indurated enlargements having
their seats in the fasciae & capsular ligaments of joints or in the tendons. Induration of stony hardness.
Hard, elevated edge of ulcers, surrounding skin, purple & swollen. Knots, Kernels, hardened glands in the
female breasts.

General Modalities :

Aggravation : In damp weather, during rest. On beginning to move.
Amelioration : Heat or warm applications, Continued motion.
