Baryta Carbonica 109

3. Swelling and induration or incipient suppuration of glands such as cervical and
inguinal.

4. Diseases of old men, usually with enlarged prostate and indurated testes.
Premature impotency. Childish old people with hypertension or childish old people
with idiocy.

5. Baldness in young people. Sclap is very sensitive to touch.

6. Often young people who have masturbated or those who suffer from frequent
seminal emission with chordee.

7. Dwarifish hysterical women with scanty menses.

8. Twitching of muscles during sleep. Talks in sleep.

9. Mind : Idiotic and foolish, with loss of memory or deficient intelligence. Mental
weakness. The patient is irritated and inattentive. There is lack of confidence in
himself. Child cannot be taught for he cannot remember. Also the child cannot be

taught how to walk; very inattentive. Child does not want to play, but sits im a
corner doing nothing or throwing stones at strangers.

Forgets in the middle of his speech. Most familiar word fails him. Dread of men,
aversion to strangers and society. Imagines that he is being laughed at or criticised.
Childish grief over trifles and childish old people. Does not want to look up or to be
looked at. Fears that his own business will collapse. Fear about his future, about
domestic affairs, etc. Constantly changes his mind. Becomes serious at laughable
matters and laughs on serious occasions (Anac., Platina). Suddenly becomes angry,
but soon feels sorry for it (Mezereum). Thinking of complaints makes them worse
(Medo., Calc. phos., Gels.).

10. Ailments from : Emotion and suppressed foot sweat.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : The buccal cavity smells foul. Dryness of mouth early in the moming. Vesicles inside the
cheek and the mouth. Saliva runs out of mouth in sleep. Intolerable stench from mouth unnoticed by the
patient himself.

Teeth : After eating, teeth feels too weak to chew any more. TOOTHACHE IN DECAYED teeth,
before menses or from cold. TOOTHACHE WORSE when thinking about it, disappears when the MIND
IS diverted.

Throat :

* Causation: Tonsillitis, caused by Supperssion of foot-sweat, cold drinks and cold air.
* Character of throat affection: Every cold settles in the throat. Tonsils inflamed with engorged
veins; enlarged glands of the neck. Smarting in the throat when swallowing. Throat is sore to touch.

Tonsils enlarged and prone to suppurate, especially on right side. Along with tonsillitis, palate and uvula
are also swollen.

* Modalities: Aggravation on swallowing solids and when thinking about his troubles.
* Concomitans; Sensation of plug in throat. Tonsillitis leading to quinsy.
