?

Hydrastis Canadensis 317

Liver :
Hydrastis is very useful in chronic inflammation of liver, jaundice, gall-stone colic with jaundice.
Causation: Liver troubles are mainly due to excessive use of alcohol.

Liver is enlarged, hard torpid and nodular, with deranged hepatic function. There is distress in the
right hypochondrium. Skin is jaundiced with light or even white stool, showing absence of bile.

Large, flabby, yellowish tongue; yellowish skin.

Modalities: Pain aggravated from motion and relieved by rest and also by passing flatus and by
pressure.
Rectum :

There is obstinate piles with prolapse of rectum. Anus fissured. Inflammation of anus which
causes contraction and spasm of the sphincter ani, Paresis of the rectum which results in most obstinate
oo ion with no desire for days together. Constipation with feeling of GONENESS in the stomach.
Stool is hard and nodular. Smarting pain in anus during and after stool which lasts for a long time.

Respiratory Symptoms :
Hydrastis is indicated in chronic bronchitis, and the symptoms are as follows:-
Sensantion: There is rawness, soreness and burning in the chest.
Character of cough: Cough is dry hard with rattling .of mucus in the chest.
Character of sputa: There is expectoration of thick, YELLOWISH AND TENACIOUS MUCUS.
Feeling of suffocation when lying on left side.
Aggravation from lying-on left side.

Concomitants: With cough there is profuse discharge of thick yellow, stringy mucus from nasal
passage. Hawks yellow, viscid mucus from the posterior nares and fauces with ulceration.

Modality: Aggravtion from lying on left side (Phos).

Leucorrhoea :

There is THICK, YELLOWISH, ROPY, STRINGY AND VISCID LEUCORRHOEA, hanging from
the os in long strings. There is chronic catarrhal condition of the vulva.

Leucorrhoea is worse after menses. It is offensive, acrid and excoriating. Excoriation and erosion of
the cervix. Pruritus vulvae with sexual exicitement. Sore in vagina during coition. There is burning pain in
vagina with soreness.

Modality: Aggravation after menses and coition.
Concomitants; Leucorrhoea is often associated with pruritus vulvae and sexual excitement.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: From motion; skin symptoms by warmth.
Amelioration ; By rest and pressure.

Relations :

Antidoes: Merc. Sol.
It is antidoted by: Sulphur.
