218 Text Bock of MATERIA MEDICA

i

eructation. After eating, the abdomen feels full and tight There is agonising pain in the abdomen with
pinching coll. COMPELLING THE PATIENT TO BEND DOUBLE, OBVIOUSLY TO GET RELIEF
(Colocynth). Pain in right hypochondrium, FROM GALL-STONE. Spleen and liver are enlarged and
swollen, with jaundice. Liver is painful to touch, but relieved by hard pressure.

Diarrhoea : China is suited to both acute and chronic diarrhoea. The prolonged, long standing
chronic diarrhoea causes the patient to be BROKEN DOWN AND PUMPED OUT, debilitated and non-
recognisable. Diarrhoea persists only at night.

* Causation: By taking fruits.

* Character of stool: Loose, brownish, painless, with fermentation, belching and borborygmus
in bowels with passage of excessively offensive flatus; with undigested food particles; sometimes
cadaverous smelling.

* Modality: Aggravated at night with marked periodicity. Belching gives no relief.

* Concomitants; With diarrhoea there is profound debility. In chronic cases, there is history of
gradual onset, stool more and more watery, pale and pinkish with rapid emaciation of the body.

Liver : China is one of the best remedies in chronic liver troubles. There is pain in the right
hypochondrium and often the liver may be left below the ribs, enlarged, hard and sensitive to touch, the
skin is yellow, urine dark coloured, stool light, lacking the colour due to improper secretion of bile.

Anaemia :
The quantity and quality of the blood are alterec becomes thin, watery; circulation lacks energy and
general debility, anaemic conditions are set in.

China is very useful in anaemia or debility that follows the LOSS OF VITAL FLUID.
HAEMORRHAGE, PROLONGED and EXCESSIVE LACTATION DIARRHOEA, SUPPURATION OR

SEXUAL excess. The face presents a pale, hippocratic expression; eyes are sunken and surrounded by
dark rings, with ringing and, buzzing sound in ears and desire for sour things.
Neuralgia :

Neuralgia pains are relieved by China when the pains are drawing and tearing in character. The part
feels as though sprained or sore. At the slightest touch, the pain returns and increases to a great
severity, and is relieved by hard pressure.

Rheumatic pains also show similar character.

Haemorrhage :

From every orifice of, the body, such as mouth, nose, bowels or rectum, long coulinued
haemorrhage occurs with desire for sour things and ringing and buzzing sound on the ears.

Menses :
Time; First menses too early.
Quantity: Profuse with pain.
Duration: Too long lasting.
Character of blood: Dark clotted blood.
Modality; Parts very sensitive to slight touch, but relieved by hard pressure.

Concomitants: Purulent leucorrhoea in place of menses, Ovaritis from sexual excess. Anaemia may
also be present. Insomnia after haemorrhage. Vertigo and menstrual colic are present. Along with this,
there may also be ringing in ears.
