604 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

6) Sea sickness—Aggravated by least motion and relieved on deck in fresh cold air

Car Sickness—Coccul., Petrol. Air Sickness—Bell., Mountain Sickness—Coca, Home
Sickness—Caps.

7) Sensation of excessive wretchedness and great despon-dency.

8) Symptoms occur in paroxysms such as asthma, sick headache, vertigo, sneezing.

9) Palpitation violent when lying on left side and goes off when turning to the right.
10) Many symptoms are aggravated on least motion (compare Ipe., Bry., Lob. In.)

11) Ailments from—abuse of tobacco, masturbation, at sea, shock, violent physical
exertion.

PARTICULARS

Headache

It is needed in periodical sick headache which begins in the morning increases during day and last of
until evening (Sang C., Spig. Nat M, Nat Carb. etc.) and lastig one or two days.

Location : Whole head especially right side.

Sensation : Pain as if struck by a hammer or club. Tight feeling as from band (Gels., Spig. etc.)
Modalities : Aggravation—by noise light, motion.

Amelioration : in open fresh air.

Concomitant : Deathly nausea and vomiting. There may be vertigo on opening the eyes.

Vertigo

Vertigo on opening the eyes is a strong feature of this remedy. It increases loss of consciousness
with death like pallor. Vertigo on rising or looking upward and is relieved in open fresh air and by
vomiting.

Eyes

It has a good action over the eyes.

Dim sighted—Sees as through a veil.

Amaurosis—From atrophy of retina or optic nerve, Fre-quent recurrence of amblyopia. It is also to
be thought of in stravismus when depending upon brain troubles.
Heart

It has been recommended in dilatation of the heart caused by a shock or violent physical exertion
and in angina with high tension.

Sensation : Constriction of throat and tightness feeling across the upper part of the chest.
Pain :Pain in praecordial region. Pain radiates from centre of sternum.
Pulse :Feeble, imperceptible and intermittent.

Modality : Aggravation on least motion, Indoor (in warm room) relleved in open fresh cold air,
uncovering.
