Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1.
2.

Haemorrhagic diathesis; small wounds bleed freely.

Offensiveness, acridity and putridity of all discharges from mucous membrane
are the keynote symptoms of whole remedy.

Highly chilly Patient. All the symptoms are aggravated from cold and relieved b’y
warmth in general.

Pulsation is felt all over the body (Lil. tig.).

For flow of blood from uterus and vagina consequent upon lifting, over-exertion or
coitus, Kreosote Is infallible.

6. Putrid and acrid leucorrhoea is a striking feature of this remedy.

Decayed teeth and gum, with foetid, corrosive discharge calls for this remedy. Tooth
begins to decay as soon as it comes out.

In cholera infantum with profuse vomiting, cadaverous smelling stool, Kreosote is
efficacious.

PARTICULARS

Haemorrhaaic diathesis (Crot. nor., Ipecac, Lachesis, Phosphorus, Secale cor., China). Small wounds
bleed profusely. Flow is passive in epistaxis, haematemesis, haemoptysis, haematuria and from uterus.
Blood oozes out for weeks together.

Character of blood: Dark and very much offensive.
There is haemorrhage after extraction of teeth (Ham., Bovista).

Nose :

In epistaxis, offensive smell and discharges. Blood is acrid, offensive and coming out from the nose-

Mouth :

Painful dentition. Teeth begin to decay as soon as they appear. Gums are bluish red, soft, spongy.
dark oozing after extraction of teeth.

Stomach :

Kresote is one of the good drugs of cancer of stomach, there is burning pain in the stomach soon
after eating and sense of fulness with increasing nausea ending in vomiting which is sour, acrid,
undigested and offensive.

After swallowing water, bitter taste is prolonged in the mouth for a long time.

In malignant diseases of stomach, where there \s vomiting of blood, sputa is very much offensive and
covered with dark blood, if Kreosote is given, it will furnish some degree of palliation even in cancerous
and other incurable diseases of the stomach.

Menses :

It is well indicated and suited in MENORRHAGIA OR DYSMENORRHOEA.
Time: Too early.
