370 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Sensation: Soreness, dryness and constriction in the throat.

Look of the throat: Dark purple appearence of membrane. Throat seems as a large lump has
settled over there. Liquid is more painful than solid (lgn., Bell,). When swallowing, throat is very
much sensitive to touch. Prostration is odt of all proportion to appearence of throat complication.

Modality: Aggravation AFTER SLEEP. FROM HOT DRINK AND FROM TOUCH.
Heart :

There is violent palpitation; must sit up; very restless and trembling. There may be suffocation on
lying down. Constrictive feeling in chest, with precordial pain,

Unable to lie on left side, with fainting and anxiety.

It may also be associated with left sided apoplexy.

There is blueness and purple look of the body with collapsed condition; with cold sweat. The patient

wants to be fanned but slowly and from a distance. Precordial region is very painful and sensitive
to touch.

Epilepsy :

Consequent upon loss of vital fluid, sexual excess, onanism or jealousy, COMES ON ONLY DURING
SLEEP (Cuprum met., Bufo. During waking hours, Agaricus mus.).
Female genital organs :

Lachesis has special affinity for female genital organs, especially left ovary, causing Inflammation of
glands, cellular tissue and engorgement of veins, showing purple and mottled appearnece.

Concomitants: There may be hot flushes and hot perspiration, Extremes of heat and cold cause
great debility. Along with menses, there may be haemorrhoids, burning vertex and headache.

Menses : Menses at REGULAR TIME.
Character of blood: Blood is dark, watery, and non-coagulable.
Modality: All troubles are relieved by menstrual flow (Zincum met., Lac can., Mag. Phos.).

Skin :

Causation: Bad effects of poison, wounds, post mortem, etc, Indicated in boils, carbuncles, ulcers,
etc. with intense pain, dark, bluish or purple coloured appearance with tendency to malignancy. Hot
haemorrhage with bloody sweat. On the skin there may be numerous ulcers, gangrene and pyaemic
condition, malignant and asthenic inflammation from which continuous and profuse blood oozes along
with other offensive and ichorous discharges.

Look of Skin : Blulsh purple appearence; bolls and carbuncles with purplish surroundings. The
skin is very sensitive to touch.

Character of discharge: The discharges are ichorous and offensive.

Fever :

Lachesis is better indicated in the 2nd and 3rd week of TYPHOID; with stupor or muttering
delirium; sunken face; typhoid state, falling of lower jaw; tongue trembles dry and black, protruded with
difficulty and catches between the teeth when producing. Perspiration is bloody and cold, stains yellow.
