sarsaparila 553

3. Inability to pass urine freely except in the standing position, when sitting in only
dribbles.

4. Passage of white sand in urine is very characteristic of this remedy (Red sand
Lycopodium).

5. Air passes from the urethra.

§. Retraction of nipples or flattening of nipples in nursing women (Silicea, Hydrastis).

7. Herpetic eruptions on all parts of the body, rashes, cracks, and fissures, especially
in hands and feet.

8. Rheumatic affections following suppressed gonorrhoea or abuse of mercury.

9, Ailment from : Abuse ot mercury, syphilis or suppressed gonorrhoea.

PARTICULARS

Urinary symptoms :

Sarsaparilla is an excellent remedy for the urinary troubles brought on or aggravated by abuse of
mercury, due to syphilis or gonorrhoea, the cardinal symptoms of which are as follow =

There is severe, almost UNBEARABLE PAIN AT THE CONCLUSION OF URINATION just as urine
ceases to flow (Berb., Med., Thuja).

Quite frequently, passage of gravel or or small calculi and white sand in urine, or on diaper (brown
sand, Phos., red sand, Lyco.).

Right sided renal colic: There is excruciating pain from the right kidney to downwards (Lyco.}.

Child screams and cries before and during passing urine due to pain caused by the passage of small
stones (Bor., Lyco.).

Urine may be scanty or copious, bloody or bright and clear, but irritating; flaky and sandy:
passes without any sensation (Caust., Arg nit.).

There is painful distention, and tenderness in the bladder.
Urine dribbles while sitting, passes freely while standing.
Air passes from the urethra.
Modalities: Sitting and motion aggravate many symptoms.
Amelioration: By standing and rest.
wine is an intolerable bad smell (stench) on genital organs with bloody seminal emission and fluid
ons.

Skin :

Sarsaparilla is a very good remedy for the skin troubles caused by psora, mercurial, syphilitic or
gonorrhoea! affections, if following symptoms are found.

Skin is loose, shrivelled or lies infolds and flabby. The skin is hard and indurated.

There are herpetic eruptions on all parts of the body; ulcers after abuse of mercury in syphilis.

From the exposure to open air there may be rash and dry itch like eruptions, which are prone to
appear in spring and they are generally crusty.
