Argentum Nitricum 77

Relation with heat and cold; Hot patient. Wants everything cold, which gives relief,
excepting the gastric symptoms which aggravate.

Miasm: Argentum nitricum covers all the three miasms. It is, however, mainly
sycotic and syphilitic with Psora in the background.

Diathesis: Neuro-sycotic.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. Emaciation progressing every year which is most marked in the lower extremities.

2. Defective co-ordination of muscles (Gels.) with trembling in the affected parts.

8. Great apprehension, especially when getting ready for church, opera,
examination, public meeting or any other, engagement and at that time
DIARRHOEA SETS IN (GELS.). It is a good remedy for examination funk.

4. Sensation of a splinter in throat, uterus and other parts of the body (Hepar sulph.,
Nitric acid).
5. Chilly when uncovered, yet feels smothered if warapped up, craves fresh air (Puls.).
6. Desire for sugar, sweets (Lyco., Cina, Sulpur), for salt (Carbo veg., Nat. mur.,
Phos.).
7. Great longing for fresh air.
- 8. Belching accompanies most gastric ailments.
9. Urine passes unconsiously day and night (Causticum).
10. Impotence, erection fails when action is attempted.
11. Chronic laryngitis of singers. The high notes cause cough.
12. Great weakness of lower extremities with trembling. Cannot walk with eyes closed
(Alumina).
13. Coition is painful in both sexes, followed by bleeding from vagina (Nitric acid).
14. Post-diptheritic paralysis (Gels.).
15. Aeute or chronic diseases from unusual or long continued mental exertion.

16. Metrorrhagia in young widows; in sterility; with nervous erethism at chage of life
(Lach.).
17. Arg. nit. is an excellent remedy for epilepsy caused by fright or occcurring at

menstrual period. Pupils dilate days and hours before, attack. After attack the
patient becomes restless with trembling.

18. Mind : There is GREAT APPREHENSION when getting ready to go to church or
opera, examination or any other important engagement and at that time diarrhoea
sets in.

u~ There is frequent loss of memory; makes frequent faults in speech because he
cannot find the right words.

