280 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Euphrasia commonly has cattarrhal headache.
Sensation: As if the head is going to burst.

Character of pain: Bruised pain, stitching pain in the head. Catarrhal headache with profuse
discharge from eyes and nose with dazzling of eyes.

Modality: Aggravation in the evening, from warmth and touch.

Nose :

Great sneezing and PROFUSE FLUENT CORYZA; the nasal mucous membrane is swollen. The
discharge is BLAND and it occurs with ACRID LACHRYMATION.

After this coryza has lasted for a day or two, it extends into the larynx with a hard cough and much
offensive expectoration.

Modality: Aggravation from exposure to warm, south wind, at night and while lying down.

Eyes :

Euphrasia is adapted to amblyopia, opacity and ulceratin of cornea with catarrhal condition of eyes,
and catarrhal conjunctivitis.

Sensation: Sensation of dryness, burning and biting in the eyes.

Character of discharge: The eyes water all the time which is COPIOUS AND ACRID. The eyes
are agglutinated in the morning. PROFUSE ACRID LACHRYMATION WITH PROFUSE bland CORYZA
(rev.—Allium cepa, where coryza is acrid and lachrymation is bland).

Look of the eyes: Margins of lids red, swollen and burning, very much sensitive to touch. There is
violent itching of eyes leading to rubbing and winking. There may also be fine rashes about the eyes with
puffiness of lids and blurred vision.

Character of pain: Cutting pain in eyes extending to head, pressure in eyes as if caused by sand.
Modality: Aggravation in the evening, after exposure to south wind and BY WARMTH.

Cough :
Causation: After exposure to south wind.
Time: There is cough only in the daytime (Fer. met., Staphysagria).
Sensation: There Is tickling sensation in the larynx.

Character of cough: There js terrible Irritation in the larynx compelling the patient to cough
followed by pressure beneath the sternum.

Character of sputa: Cough with copious expectoration, along WITH CORYZA AND
LACHRYMATION. There is profuse expectoration of mucus by voluntary hawking.

Concomitants ; During cough, there js EXCESSIVE LACHRYMATION (Natrum mur.). With cough
there may also be dyspnoea and difficulty in inspiration. Loose cough with rattling in the chest.

Modality: Aggravation in daytime, on rising in the morning. Amelioration by lying down.
