68 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

1

. Apis is more a right sided medicine; symptoms proceed from right to left (Rhus
tox.,—from left to right and from above downwards, Lachesis).

. Aversion to tight bandage like Lachesis, is very much present in Apis.

8. Apis is a great pain remedy. Character of the pain is burning, stinging and

soreness, suddenly migrating from one part to another (Kali bi. Lac. can., Puls.).

. Apis is generally thirstless (except during chill stage of intermittent fever). It is
thirstless, especially in dropsy.

. Extremely sensitive to touch (Belladonna, Heper sulph., Lachesis, China).
. OEdema, general or local; bag-like puffy swelling under the eyes (over the eyes, Kali

carb; around and eyes, Phosphorus).

. Skin alternately dry and perspiring.

8. Feels suffocated; feels as if every breath would be his last, especially in dropsical

11.

eo &

14.

condition and in-heat stage of intermittent fever.

. Craving for cold in general; cold milk, and sour things.
10.

Involuntary diarrhoea, with sensation as if anus was Wide open (Secale cor.,
Phosphorus).

Urine is scanty, frequent and painful; sudden urging; strangury. Scalds while
passing urine; irritates with burning pain.

. Stupor, with sharp, sudden shrill; cries in brain diseases.
. Mind : The patient is very much awkward; drops things while handling them

(Bovista, Natrum mur.) Very much irritable, nervous, fidgety; hard to please.
Apathy, indifference and unconsciousness are well-marked. Listless; connot think
clearly. Also connot concentrate mind when attempting to read or study. Weeping
disposition; cannot help crying; discouraged and despondent (Puts.).

Sudden shrill, piercing screams, especially during brain diseases. Delirium, after
suppressed scarlet (rosy) eruption. Sensation of dryness.

Mental state aggravates from heat and in warm room, better in cold weather.

Ailments from : Jealousy, fright, rage, vexation, bad news, bad effects of acute
exanthemata imperfectly developed and suppresed (Zincum met.), measles,
urticaria.

PARTICULARS :

Head :
Apis is a very good medicine for meningitis and hydrocephalus. The indications are:

Sudden, shrill piercing screams of children while waking or sleeping (Heil., Bell., Zincum met.). Child
lies in a stuporous condition, one side of the body twiching, other side motionless. Rolling head from side
to side; head drawn back rigidly. A stupid state or state of semiconsciousness. Child lying with the eyes
