NATRUM SULPHURICUM

Synonym ; Common Names:
Sodium sulphate Glauber’s salt, Sulphate of soda

This inorganic salt is found in the
intercellular fluids, and its principal office is to
regulate the water in the tissue, blood and fluids
of the body. Sodium sulphate regulates the
amount by having the power to eliminate any
excess that may, from any cause, be present. One
molecule of sodium sulphate has the power to
take up and carry out of the organism two
molecules of water. So sodium sulphate must be
present in proper quantity in the body. A
deficiency of this salt prevents the elimination of
such water from the tissue as is produced by
oxidation of organic matter (while sodium chloride properly distributes the water in
tissue, as has been shown) and thus will arise a hydrogenoid condition.

Biochemistry has established the fact that chills and fever (or ague), cholera, yellow
fever and all ailments incident to hot weather, are caused by an excess of water in the
blood, and probably in intercellular fluids: and that all such conditions arise from the
inability of the digestion and assimilation to furnish sufficient quantity of sodium
sulphate to carry off the excess of water breathed into the blood through the lungs.

When the blood becomes overcharged with water, of course, the various tissues of the
body must suffer from lack of proper nourishment. This sets up a panic. Now, as the
water-carriers are not present in sufficient quantities to throw out the excess in the
natural way, nature does the next best thing — causes a spasm of the vascular, nervous
and muscular systems, and thus, by violent effort, throws out the excess of water; hence
the profuse perspiration which follows the chill. Where Natr. sulph. is not given to
supply the workmen, and thus keep out an excess of water, the chill will recur in about
fortyeight hours, simply because that much time is required to again overcharge the
blood with water.

So we find that among the inorganic salt-workmen in the human economy, sodium
sulphate works with water, keeps bile and pancreatic juice at normal consistency,

regulates the supply of water in intercellular fluid, and eliminates the excess of water
from the blood, when present in proper quantity.

In biochemic system of medicne Sodium Sulphate (Nat Sulph) is considered as “The
Elimination Salt”
The three natrum salts work in the body as follows.

Natrum Phos creates the water by splitting up of lactic acid; Nat Mur distributes the
water through the system. Nat. Sulph. regulates the quantity of water in the organism.

