calcarea Phosphorica 669

CHARACTERISTIC INDICATIONS

1. This tissue salt is concerned with the formation of bone and teeth and thus becomes
an important remedy for children. It aids growth and normal development and
should be given in cases of backwardness more particularly where there is bone
weakness or recurring tooth troubles.

2. Tardy formation of callus around the ends of fractured bones, in the unnatural
growth and defective nutrition of bone and other textures found in rickets and
similar diseased conditions; thus the sphere of action of this remedy includes al!
bone diseases.

3. Defective nutrition, imperfect cell-growth and consequent decay and destruction of
tissue, especially the osseous and glandular systems. It is of use during dentition,
in convulsions and spasms occurring in weak, scrofulous subjects, stimulating
nutrition, etc.

4. It promotes healthy cellular activity and restores tone to weakened organs and
tissues. This is the remedy for any period of convalescence; its restorative power
will speed recovery and replenish the body’s reserves of strength. Calc Phos has
always been prized as a restorative.

Another important feature is its restorative power after acute diseases, either
directly or preparing the way for other remedies, by stimulating the system to their
action, thus becoming an important intercurent remedy.

Practically, this drug proves itself a real tonic in chronic wasting diseases. In
anemia of young, rapidly growing people; in women weakened by rapid child-
bearing, prolonged suckling or excessive menstruation or leucorrhea; in
accompanying diseases with exhaustive discharges, as in chronic bronchitis,
tubercular diarrhea and night-sweats, abscesses and scrofulous sores, through its
great power on the secretions, it acts curatively.

5. It is a constituent of saliva and gastric juice. It assists digestion and assimilation
and favours the building up of a sturdy, robust constitution.

6. In old age, where the regenerative function decreases in the nervous tissue, Cale.
phos. is well indicated, and we find it useful in senile cutaneous and vaginal itching,
as well as during reconvalescence from severe acute diseases. In tuberculosis
pulmonum, with its emaciation, night-sweats, hemoptysis and other marked
physical symptoms, Cale. phos. in low potencies holds out great promise to
ameliorate the severity of the case; equally great is its benefit in pollutions of young
married men (and sexual excitement of women) and onanists. In the osseous
expansions of rachitic children.

7. Cale Phos is the tissue salt for anemia and conditions associated with imperfect
circulation. In the anaemic states often seen in young girls, this remedy should be
given. 10 grains of the second trituration of Cal.phos. is preferable to the usual iron
treatment.

Spasms and pains caused by anemia are cured by this remedy. These pains are
accompanied by formication, sensation of coldness and of numbness,
