202 _e = SIMITRIA MEDIcy
SS

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. An excellent nick name for Chamomilla is “cannot bear it”. Cannot bear himself

Cannot bear others, wants everything but when offered hurls them away. Cannot
bear pain. Cannot bear anything. Everything is simply intolerable.

. It is known as the leading “ANGER REMEDY”; ailments are brought on or

aggravated by fits of anger.

3. An irritable Chamomilla child is QUIET ONLY WHEN CARRIED.
4. INTOLERABLE PAIN WITH NUMBNESS OF THE AFFECTED PARTS (Platina

an

ba

ao

Aconite.). There is great debility as soon as pain begins. Aggravation form heat.
Desires open air yet over-sensitive to it.

Sleepy but cannot sleep (Bell, Stram, Opium).

Convulsion of children from nursing AFTER A FIT OF ANGER IN MOTHER.

. One Cheek red and hot, the other pale and cold.

. Mental calmness coritraindicates Chamomilla (rev—Puls.)
10.
11.
. Mind : Patient is very irritable, fretful, peevish, snappish, uncivil, cannot retur- .

Milk runs out in nursing mother.

Hot, offensive; greenish diarrhoea during dentition.

civil answer, cross, spiteful, impatient, wants this and that but when offered ref::—
it outright (Bry., Cina., Kreosote, Staph). Piteous moaning of a child because =-
cannot get what he wants. Whinning restlessness, QUIET ONLY WHEN CARR-=-
ANGER causes many disease such as diarrhoea, convulsion, chill, fever, ete. Pas==
cannot endure any one near him; cannot bear to be spoken to, aversion to tal==:
answers peevishly and in an uncivil manner.

13. Ailments from : Anger, dentioton, cold, tobacco.

PARTICULARS

Diarrhoea :

Causation; Anger, from cold, tobacco, downward motion, DURING DENTITION giarrhees

childbed.

Character of stool: It is greenish, watery, corroding, like chopped eggs and spinach, Aor. ‘<%

offensive like rotten eqas.

Modalities :

Aggravation: Towards evening, before mid-night, by heat, anger, from eructation.

Relief from fasting, in warm wel weather

Toothache :

Causation: By taking anything warm; on entering a warm room, taking coffee, during menses

pregnancy.
