Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

ee

116

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Exposure to cold or to heat of sun; from hair cut; congestion and suppression of
catarrhal flow.

Mode of Onset; Sudden and violent.

Location: Right side, supra-ciliary region and forehead.

Sensation: Sensation as if the brain were pushed through the forehead. Sensation of stabbing as by
a knife from one temple to the other.

Character of pain: There is intense periodical nervous and CONGESTIVE HEADACHE,
accompanied by tensive pressure on the vertex and on forehead, Rush of blood to the head with pulsation
of cerebral arteries and THROBBING IN THE BRAIN. Jerking headache as if a weight were in the
occiput; pain in the head and eye-balls, feels as if the eyes would be pushed out from the sockets.

Modalities :

* Aggravation: From slight motion, jar, noise, light, touch, lying down, least exertion or leaning
forwards, bending downwards or lying down; anything that takes the patient out of the prependicular

* Ameliorafion: By tight bandage and during menses.

* Concomitants: RED FACE, THROBBING OF CAROTIDS; often with pain in the eye balls,
boring head into the pillow. REDNESS OF EYES with buming and great intolerance of light. Double
vision, dim vision, objects’ appear upside down.

Vertigo :
Vertigo is caused by stooping or rising after stooping or change of position.
Vertigo with falling to the left side or backwards; as if objects tum in a circle or sway to and fro.

Sensitive to least contact. Scalp is very sensitive to touch with much throbbing and heat. Vanishing of
sight and turning over in bed.

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : Mouth is very dry with or without thirst. Tongue and palate are dark red and dry: tremor
and stammering speech. Submaxillary glands are swollen, Putrid taste in the mouth.

Throat : There is great dryness, of the throat and fauces, with REDNESS AND BURNING; Worse
on the right side. Throat feels very much constricted with consequent difficulty in deglutition. Tonsillitis,
worse on the right side. Uvula is red, swollen, very painful and burning, Constant urging and desire to
swallow, Cervical glands are suddenly inflamed.

Stomach and Abdomen : There is great nausea and vomiting after eating and drinking. Vomiting
of undigested food with much bile and/or blood; crampy and spasmodic pain in the stomach and
epigastric region. Burning sensation in the stomach, pain in the stomach, which is aggravated by motion.
Region of liver is very sensitive, painful and It Is very worse when lying in the right side. COLIC FROM
GALL STONE is also found.

Abdomen is very painful and distended and it is very sensitive to touch. Constriction, pain and heat
around umbilicus. Violent cutting pain in abdomen. Tenderness of the abdomen; aggravated by least jar,
