conium Maculatum 239

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache is caused by blow or fall, sexual excess, suppressed menses, excitement or over
work, insufficient evacuation.

Location: Lancinating pain especially on the vertex and forehead, in temples; semi-lateral.

Sensation: Sensation as if there is much foreign substance in the head. Sensation as if the brain has
gone to sleep.

Character of headache: Stupefying pains in the head; excessive sensibility of brain. Tearing and
lancinating pain as if the head were beaten to pieces or the contents of skull would be pressed out.
Stitching in head while coughing. Headache with numbness of the brain. Attack of tearing headache
which compels the patient to lie down. Obstinate shooting pain in the sinciput; heaviness and squeezing
sensation. Apoplexy with paralysis of old people.

Modalities:
* Aggravation: When walking in the open air; from contact, motion and after eating.

* Amelioration: When lying in a recumbent position or while stooping; by external pressure and
© Concomitants: Nausea and vomiting of mucus. Apoplexy with paralysis of old people.

Vertigo : The strongest characteristic of this drug, from the Homoeopathic point of view, IS ITS
PECULIAR VERTIGO which aggravated by TURNING THE HEAD SIDEWISE OR TURNING IN THE
BED, especially of old people. Feels as if bed were floating. Vertigo after intoxication even after
taking a very small quantity. There is whirling Vertigo on rising and sometimes causes a fall, especially in
the morning.

Eyes, eye troubles are caused by injury or blow and eye strain; or Using artificial lightly students;
sexual excess or suppressed menses and sexual suppression.

Character of eye troubles: There is aversion to light without inflammation of eyes. Ophthalmia
with intense photophobia. Weakness and dazzling of the eyes, with giddiness and debility. Weakness of
vision. Pupils dilated, the pain is worse at night and terribly aggravated by least ray of light, relieved in a
dark room and by pressure.

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Tongue : Tongue is swollen, painful, stiff and paralysed, Consequently, there is difficulty in speech.
Bitter taste in the mouth.

Stomach : There is no appetite. Eructations taste sour arid offensive. Terrible nausea with violent
vomiting like coffee-ground; acrid heartburn; worse on going to bed. Amelioration from eating, but
aggravation a few hours after meals. Cutting pain in the abdomen as from a knife. Severe aching in and
around liver. Rumbling with painful tightness of abdomen.

Stool : Cold stool and cold flatulence. Frequent ineffectual urging to stool; passes little at a time.
Burning in rectum during stool. Stool is full of undigested matter and painless; passes involuntarily during
sleep.

Urine : There is great difficulty in voiding urine; FLOW INTERMITS, STOPS AND THEN FLOWS

AGAIN. Flow stops on straining, from enlarged prostate, uterine affections or paretic conditions. Pain
when urinating. Urine is pale with grey or white sediment.
