INTRODUCTION

The relief of human suffering is a noble cause. Those who devote their life in this
cause truly deserves the gratitude of their fellows. In the history of the healing art, one
such name is Wilhelm Heinrich Schuessler, one of the outstanding intellects of the
ninentinth century and a man whose scientific vision was far ahead of his time. Dr.
Schuessler was not only a doctor of medicine, but he was also a physiological chemist and
a physicist. His keen, analytical mind was able to assimilate and to co-ordinate the far-
reaching physiological discoveries of great contemporary scientists. As a practising
physician, he was able to put his carefully worked-out theories to the test and the
brilliant results he achieved led to the formulation of his unique system of cellular
therapeutics, to which he gave the name - Biochemistry/Biochemic System of Medicne.
Thus Dr. Wilhelm Heinrich Schuessler is considered as the founder of the Biochemic
System of Medicine.

DR. WILHELM HEINRICH SCHUESSLER

Dr. Wilhelm Heinrich Schuessler was born on the
2ist of August 1821 in Oldenburg, Germany. Since
childhood, Schuessler was a studious boy and had
remarkable capabilities. He devoted most of his time
learning foreign languages like Latin, Greek, Spanish,
French, English and Italian. He wanted to become a
Homeopathic physician when he grew up, but his brother
told him that he would assist him to become one, only if
he became a legally qualified practitioner. Keeping to his
word, Schuessler studied medicine at the University of
Berlin, Paris, Geissen and Prague. He then qualified as a
homeopathic practitioner and started his practice at
Oldenburg.

Died : 30th March, 1898 Dr. Schuessler was very much influenced by Rudolph
Virchow (the founder of cellular pathology), who taught
that all diseases are based on a change in the function of
cells in the body. Another important person who influenced him greatly was Professor
Moleschott, who pointed out that the structure and vitality of the organs depends upon
the presence of inorganic constituents, Based on the theories of these two, Schuessler
formulated his own doctrine, which he called the Cell salt therapy or the Biochemic
system of medicine. He is also referred as the Father of deficiency therapy.

Dr Schuessler believed that when a human being is reduced to ashes by heat, there
are only twelve minerals left. These he called as the tissue salts. They are responsible
for the natural balance and vitality of the body, According to him, deficiency of any of
these tissue salts produces a diseased condition in the human organism, and
replenishment or supplementation of the body by the deficient salt, in physiological doses
restores health in the organism. Schuessler potentised these tissue salts and made them
into biochemic remedies.

Born : 21st August, 1821

657
