452 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

The patient is very much forgetful. Weakness of memory is of the topmost degree,
The forgetfulness is of such a degree that she does not recognise a well known and
quite familiar street and cannot remember anything.

Along with this there is vanishing of thoughts while reading, talking or -wwiiling
Uses wrong words.

The patient is very much perturbed with the unconquerable and irresistible desire
to sleep. Always feels drowsy and sleepy. Side by side, there is stupor and
insensibility too. She is also very much hysterical with frequently changing mood.
One moment laughing, the next moment crying. Sudden change from grave to gay
and from lively to serene mood (Crocus, Ighatia, Platina).

13. Ailments from : Exposure to cold weather; cold drinks, overeating, pregnancy,
fright, mental exertion, suppressed eruption and alcohol.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Headache is caused by overeating. Eating a little more causes headache. There is pressive headache
in small spot on the left frontal eminence.

The patient is very much drowsy and sleepy with dry mouth and no thirst.

Gastrointestinal tract :

Mouth : There is gret dryness of mouth, lips and throat. Tongue is so dry that it adheres to the
palate. There is no saliva in the mouth to be expectorated or swallowed. Saliva seems like cotton.

Throat is also very dry and stiff; yet there rs NO THIRST. Toothache Curing pregnancy. At every
menstrual period, the mouth, throat and tongue are intolerably dry; especially when sleeping.

Stomach : Abdomen is enormously distended, with rumbling in abdomen; especially after every
meal. Eating a little in excess causes various troubles, such as headache, pain and distress in the stomach.
There is pain in the stomach during eating or immediately after eating (Kali. bi. Bry.). Flatulent
dyspepsia, especially of old people, There is great appetite, but no thirst. Pressure and pain in liver and
right hypochondrium. Pain, nausea and vomiting during pregnancy.

Stool : Stool is soft and foetid, but expelled with difficulty. Rectum is inactive. Diarrhoea in summer,
from cold drinks and epidemic in autumn. Stool is white. Diarrhoea from boiled milk, or during dentition;
during pregnancy; with sleepinss and fainting. Diarrhoea with undigested stool or like chopped egg with
loss of Appetite.

Respiratory Symptoms :

There is sudden hoarseness which is aggravated from walking against the wind (Euph., Hepar). The
patient suffers from severe cough. Cough |s caused by getting warm in bed, or from being overheated,
from bathing or standing in water, living in cold damp places. The peculiarity of the cough is that it is
loose after eating and dry after drinking with oppression of chest.

Heart : There is violent palpitation with weak pulse. Feeling of rush of blood to heart and then to
the head and from there all over the body.
