Aurum Metallicum 101

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Suited to old people who are tired of life, in whom syphilis is implanted on a
scrofulous constitution.

2. PROFOUND MELANCHOLY AND CONSTANTLY DWELLING ON SUICIDE.

3. Hurried and worried; uneasy and restless

4, Aggravation from sunet to sunrise (Merc. Syphi.).

5. Oversensitive to pain, smell, taste, hearing, touch etc.

6. Mind : Aurum met. patient shows peculiar characteristic, rare and uncommon
mental symptoms as follows:
All mental affections are consequent upon and incidental to bad effects of mercury
and syphilis.
He feels as if he has committed many unpardonable crimes and sins of enormous
magnitude when young and on realisation of the paramount seriousness thereof, he
becomes sad, repentant and despondent with despair of salvation and eager for
redemption of sins. Therefore, he is sad and has complete disgust for life; very
gloomy and taciturn.
In order to get rid of these worries, he is constantly DWELLING UPON SUICIDE
as the only way of solution. Consequently PROFOUND MELANCHOLY, prevails
upon him throughout.
He feels that life is a constant burden for him; feels hateful and quarrelsome and
want to put a permanent end to it by COMMITTING SUICIDE.
Aurum met, is the topmost medicine for depressive insanity.
Self condemnation is inborn in a Aurum met, patient.
He is very restless and anxious about the future. Has great desire for mental and
physical activity, still connot do things fast enough.
He is low-spirited, lifeless with weak memories.
He is very much hurried and worried; uneasy and restless; irritable and peevish;
least contradiction excites anger in him.
He feels that he is an unwanted element in society and has no right to live; even
God cannot pardon his unlimited amount of sins and crimes, etc.

7. Ailments from : Bad effects of mercury, syphilis, alcohol, fear, fright, anger,
contradiction, mortification, vexation, dread, reserved displeasure and disappointed
love.

PARTICULARS :

Headache :

Causation: Headache from least mental exertion, fear, fright, anger or contradiction. Headache from
constipation.

Character of headache: Intense congestive headache with heat. Tearing pain through the brain to
forehead. Boring and tearing in skull bones.
