Graphites 301

a tendency to break open again. Erysipelas beginning in the face and spreading to other parts. Every little
injury suppurates. Fissures and cracks at the end of fingers, or nipples, vulva and labial commissures.

There is itching of skin over the body with or without eruptions. Skin affections are particularly
located in the bend of joints, on the scalp and behind the ears.

All the skin eruptions have one thing in common, viz. they EXUDE A WATERY, TRANSPARENT,
GELATINOUS. STICKY FLUID. Hard cicatrices appearing after mammary abscess, retarding the flow of
milk. Old cicatrices break open again. Cancer of breast, from old scars and repeated abscesses. Eruptions
upon the ears; between the fingers and toes and on various parts of body from which oozes a
WATERY, TRANSPARENT AND STICKY FLUID.

The nails are brittle, crumbling, and deformed; they are very painful and sore as if ulcerated, thick
and crippled. Eczema of lids, eruptions moist and fissured, lids red and margins covered with scales and
crusts. There is burning in round spot on vertex. Phlegmonous erysipelas on face with burning pain,
commences on right side, going to left, after application of iodine.

Skin affections are not inclined to heal, but ulcerate readily, with itching over various parts of the
body, followed by burhing and oozing with typical STICKY FLUID discharge. Suppression of skin
eruptions causes diarrhoea (Petroleum).

Clarke says, “The skin of Graphites is rough, hard and dry” Eczematous and herpetic eruptions
predominate. Eruption on occiput exuding gluey humour; eczema of ears; moist eczema round anus.
Pimples, acne, gastro-intestinal affections alternating with acne and erythema of face, herpetic lesions or
scrofulous hypochondriasis. Excoriation between toes. Syphilitic and constitutional ulcers. Recrudescence
of scars, cracks and fissures. Offensive discharges and secretions. Sweat stains garments yellow with sour
and offensive smell.

Modalities: Skin affections are aggravated at night, by warmth of bed, before and during
menstruation and during change of weather. Amelioration is from open air, wrapping up and in darkness.
General Modalities :

Aggravation: Warmth in general, at night, rich food, before and after menstruation, extremes of
temperature, draught of cold, air, uncovering and cold drinks.

Amelioration: From warm drink, particularly warm milk, from being ciao up, open air,
eructation and eating.

Relations :
Complementary to: Causticum, Hepar and Lycopodium.
Antidoted by: Aeon., Nux vom.
Antidotes: Are., lod., Rhus tox.
It follows well: Calc. carb., Sepia., Sulph.

Notes : Indicated after Sepia in gushing leucorrhoea.
After Sulphur in affections of skin.
For obesity in young women after Calcarea carb.
