154 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

* Character: Painless hoarseness aggravated in the morning, (aggravation in the evening —
Carbo veg., Phos., Hepar sulph., but with splinter-like sensation; Causticum, but with soreness
or rawness). There Is stitching pain in the throat during deglutition. Uvula is dark red and full of
vesicles. .

Cough :
* Causation: Cough is brought on by exposure to cold, standing on damp pavements, or working
while standing in cold water; modellers or workers in cold clay.

* Sensation: Sensation in the throat, as if dust is in the throat; as if there was a plug going up
and down.

* Character of cough: Cough dry and tickling. Cough in single paroxysm (2 paroxysms—Merc,
sol,, Puls; 3 paroxysms—Cuprum met., Stannum). Sputa is yellow in colour; expectoration tastes sweet.
The pieces of sputa are ejected as pieces of pus. Sometimes sputa is stained with blood.

* Modality: aggravation in the evening and night, by eating and playing piano.
* Concomitants: With cough, there may be stitching pain in the chest.

Bronchial Asthma : There is severe anxious asthma with dyspnoea and stitches in the chest, also
with tension in the lower part of the chest, There is hot breath, heat in the mouth, but no thirst.

* Modality: Aggravation in the morning, forenoon and by sitting.

Tuberculosis : It is an excellent remedy for pretubercular condition. For tubercular affections of
lungs to tall, slender, rapidly growing young people, Calcarea carb. is an infallible remedy. Usually the
upper third of the right lung is affected (Ars., Upper left, Sulphur)

Menses : Calcarea carb. is a remedy par excellence for menstrual troubles, the indications for
which are as follows:

It is suited to ladies whose first menstruation (menarche) commenced at an early age.
¢ Time: Too early.
* Quantity: Too Profuse (Sometimes may also be scanty or suppressed).
¢ Duration: Too long /asting with subsequent amenorthoea.
¢ Character of blood: Bright red blood.
Modality: Least mental excitement causes profuse return of menstrual flow.
. ‘Concomitants:
(a) Before menses: feet habitually cold and damp, as if they had cold damp stockings on:

continuously cold in bed. Voluptuous dreams before menses, Headache may also appear jus
the previous day with chill in the evening and then colic continuing throughout the night.

(b) During menses: The. patient may have vertigo with rush of blood to the head and heat of
vertex. Nausea with occassional vomiting and tenesmus may be there.

(c) After menses: Here may be pinching type of colic when the mense ceases.

Leucorrhoea : Ladies requiring Calcarea carb., may also suffer from leucorrhoea which is milky
white but acrid. Leucorrhoea in young children too can be successfully treated with this great remedy
(Caulophyllum).

Uraemia or other diseases brought on by standing on cold, damp pavements or working whil
standing in cold water in modellers, or workers in cold clay, call for this remedy with marvellous results
