38 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

2, Insecurity of rectum with want of confidence and power in sphincter ani.

3. Hot patient, aggravation from warm and amelioration from cold water, cold
weather.

4. Itch appears each year as winter approaches.
5. Dissatisfied and angry about himself or his complaints, especially when constipated,

6. Haemorrhoid like a bunch of grapes, blue, which bleeds and is sore, tender and hot
with itching relieved by cold application.

7. Diarrhoea followed by obstinate constipation.
8. Solid stool passes out involuntarily.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Due to insufficient stool and from sedentary life.
Location: Headache across the forehead.

Character: Congestive type of headache, sensation of heat on the surface with feeling of congestion
and fulness, aching pain above the forehead, with heaviness in the eyes, must close them.

Modalities; Aggravation from every foot-step, from heat and amelioration from cold application.
Concomitants: Headache alternates with lumbago.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :
Diarrhoea :

* Causation: after eating and drinking.

* Time: Early in the morning. The patient has to hurry to the closet, driving out of bed. early
in the morning (Psor,, Rumex, Sulphur) Or immediately after eating and drinking WITH
WANT OF CONFIDENCE IN SPHINCTER ANI,

* Quantity : Scanty stool.
* Character: WATERY, yellowish, jelly-like mucus in the stool, pajnful.

* Before stool : The abdomen is distended with gas, causing a feeling of fulness and tightness
with rumbling and gurgling sound in the abdpmen, with sudden urging and heaviness in the
rectum.

* During stool; Cutting, griping pain in right lower portion of abdomen, excruciating type of
pain with much flatus. When passing flatus, sensation as if stool would also pass with it. The
flatus is very offensive, burning and copious. Much flatus with small quantity of stool, Earning in
anus after passage of flatus. Also during stool, there is gushing of thin, yellowigh, watery,
offensive and excoriating faeces which burns like fire making the anus sore. Hungry during
stool

¢ After stool: All pains cease after stool, LEAVING PROFUSE SWEATING AND PROFOUND
WEAKNESS.

. oe Aggravation after eating and drinking. Concomitants: Diarrhoea alternates with
