402 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Castro-intestinal Symptoms :

Abdomen : Ravenous hunger immediately after eating (Cina, Lyco., Psorinum), with intense thirst;

even she dreams she is drinking. There is INTENSE CRAVING FOR LIQUOR which before she hated;
desire for salt, sweet, ice, acids oranges, green fruits, etc.

Stool : There is constriction and inertia of bowels with ball-like stool. Can pass stool only
leaning far backwards (Can void urine only while sitting bent backwards, Zincummet.). There is sharp

needle-like pain in rectum so as to cause crying and tears. There may also be sensation of prolapse of
rectum

Character of stool is tenacious, clay-like, sluggish with oozing of foetid moisture. Intense itching of
anus.

Back : There is severe backache extending from occiput to the whole length of spine, which is very
sore and sensitive to touch. Beside this, there may also be burning heat along the course of the spine,

beginning in nape of neck and extending downwards with stiffness and constriction. Lumber vertebrae
are very sensitive and painful to touch. There is pain in sacrum, coccyx and back of hip running around
and down the limb. Severe pain in back relieved by profuse urination (Lyco). Pains are aggravated when
thinking of them and by heat.

Respiratory symptoms :

Throat : In any kind of throat affection, requiring this remedy there is sensation as if cold had settled
in throat with distressing pain and soreness. Throat is filled with thick, gray blood stained mucus. The
patient cannot swallow either liquid or solid.

Aggravation: From heat and when thinking of his ailments.
Cough : Pneumonia :
* Location: Usually middle lobe of right lung is affected.
¢ Sensation: Constriction in throat.
* Character of cough: Cough is dry, continuous, deep, hollow, like coughing in a barrel (Lyco).

* Character of sputa: Difficult to raise sputa. If at all raised, it is small, frothy, green in bitter
balls and viscid.

Asthma :
* Causation: Maltreated or suppressed gonorrhoea.

¢ Character: There is great dyspnoea, suffocation and chocking, caused by spasm and weakness

of epiglottis. Larynx is completely stopped so that no air can enter. Can inspire well, but cannot expire
(Sambucus).

Modalities:
* Amelioration: By lying on face, protruding the tongue, lying on abdomen and at seashore.
¢ Aggravation: When thinking of his allments

¢ Concomitants: The surface of the body becomes cold and clammy, yet the patient does not like
to cover the body and wants to be fanned rapidly.

Female genital organs :

Menses : In metrorrhagia or menorrhagia, this remedy Is to be thought of when following symptoms
are present:—

Time: During climacteric period,

Quantity: Profuse
