Lilium Tigrinum 377

—_

The patient tries to describe an indescribable feeling. There is a wild crazy feeling
on the vertex as if the ideas are scattered; confused ideas, When concentrating the
mind upon a particular thing, something else comes back to mind.

There is disposition to curse, swear, strike or think obscene things.

The patient becomes very much listless, yet cannot sit still; restless, yet does not
want to walk. She sits, broods and thinks over the past. Tormented about her
salvation.

Great sexual desire. She must keep herself busy to suppresss her sexual desire.

All the above mentioned mental symptoms alternate with physical symptoms and
are more or less due to and arising from or associated with uterine symptoms.

PARTICULARS

Uterine symptoms, Prolapse :

There is weakness and atonic condition of pelvic tissues, uterus and ovaries resulting in anteversion,
retroversion, subinvolution from paralytic condition. There is GREAT BEARING DOWN SENSATION,
dragging sensation in abdomen and pelvis as if all the organs would escape (Lac can., Sepia, Murex, Bell.):
relieved by supporting the vulva with hands,

Here it differs from SEPIA. Both have got bearing down sensation and intolerance of sympathy. Both
support the vulva during prolapse, but Lilium tig. feels heat more abd Sepia feels cold more. Sepia is
INDIFFERENT AND APATHETIC whereas Lilium is always hurried and worried. Tiger lily craves meat
while Sepia has got aversion to meat. Sepia has no sexual desire. Tiger lily has great sexual desire.
nevertheless, in order to suppress the sexual desire, she keeps herself busy.

Menses :
Time: Too early.
Quantity: Scanty.
Character of blood: Very much dark and offensive.
Character of flow: Flow only when moving about. Flow ceases when she stops walking.

Character of pain: Shifting pain in small spots that can be covered with the tip of a finger (Kali
bich., Ign.).

Concomitants: Bearing down sensation, dragging sensation in abdomen and pelvis as if all the organs
would escape; relieved by supporting the vulva with hands,

Constipation :
Causation: Inactivity of rectum.

During stool: There is great tenesmus in rectum with MUCH URGING. Sits for a long time in the
closet to pass stool. Although there is great urging and greatstraining, no stool or little stool passes out.
Along with frequent urging to stool, there is sensation of a ball in the rectum. Due to retrovefsion of
uterus, there is sensation as if the rectum were full of faeces, which brings on repeated urging to stool
and the patient sits and only strains but no stool passes out.

With desrie for stool and bearing down sensation in abdomen, there |s great pressure in recturn.
