532 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Fever blisters appear around the mouth and chin.
Modality: Aggravation: In midnight, damp wet rainy weather.
After fever: Paresis or paralytic condition of single muscles, or of lower limbs, and ptosis, etc

Rheumatism :
Better adapted to patients with rheumatic diathesis.

Causation: Lying on damp.ground, summer bathing or river bathing, working in damp place and
handling clay..

Location: Rheumatism, of any joint especially joints of right side.

Sensation; There is pain as if sprained, as if a muscle or tendon were torn from its attachemt, as if
bones were scrapped with a knife. Affected parts are very sore to touch.

Concomitants: Great restlessness, anxiety and apprehension, Cannot remain in bed at one place:
always wants to be moved. Lameness, stiffness and pain are well-marked.

Modalities: Aggravation: After mid-night, in wet rainy weather, on first moving and on getting up
in the morning.

Relief: By walking or continued motion.
Concomitants: Along with the fever, heart disease may appear.

Backache :
Causation: Too much summer bathing in river or lake, lying on damp ground or straining.
Location: Between shoulders and small of the back.
Sensation: Pain with stiffness. Pain on swallowing.
Modalities:
* Aggravation: By sitting and lying.
* Amelioration: By motion, lying on something hard.
Skin :
Erysipelas VESICULAR ERUPTIONS, vesicles are yellow, from left to right, with much swelling,

inflammation, burning; itching and stinging; skip of external genitals inflamed, erysipelatous and
oedematous.

Modalities: Worse at night, cold wet rainy weather and amelioration by dry weather and warm
application.
In chronic urticaria when Rhus tox. seems indicated but fails to cure.Bovista should be thought of.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: Before a thunderstorm, cold wet rainy weather, at night, from getting wet while
perspiring and during rest.

Amelioration: Warmth, dry weather, wrapping up; warm or hot \things; motion; change of
position; moving affected parts.
Relations :

Complementary to: Bryonia.
