434

Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

1

. Great debility caused by heat of summer and sun.
. Chronic effects of sunstroke.

2
3. Exhaustion and debility from least effort either mental or physical.
4

5

6
7
8
9

10

11.

. Complaints in general aggravate from music: music causes gret sadness and
tendency to suicide (Natrum sulph, Sabina, Nitric acid, Sepia, Thuja, Aconite)

. Symptoms are worse during a thunderstorm (Petroleum, Psorinum, Sepia,
Phosphorus, Rhododendron).

. Aversion to milk and diarrhoea from taking it.

. Discharge of mucus from vagina after an embrace.

. Nose is swollen and ulcerated with a thick yellow or green offensive discharge.
. Great indigestion which is aggravated by vegetable and starchy food.

. Mind : Mentally the patient is very much sad, depressed and melancholic. There is
sadness and depression of spirit. Therein difficulty in comprehension, inability to
combine the ideas while writing or reading.

Inability to think or to perform any mental labour as it causes headache. Feels
stupefied if he tries to exert himself.

There is intolerable melancholy and depression. Patient is wholly occupied with sad
thoughts.

Music is unbearable. Causes a tendency to suicide, melancholy and weeping. Music

causes great sadness which leads even to religious insanity. Complaints in general
are aggravated from music.

There is attack of anxiety and restlessness during a thunderstorm and by mental
exertion.

Ailments from : Heat of summer, gaslight, storm, overstudy, cold drinks, when
overheated, etc.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache is caused by HEAT OF SUMMER, CHRONIC EFFECTS OF SUN STROKE,

renewed with return of hot weather, from mental labour.

fore

Location: Headache first felt in the occiput.
Sensation: Head feels too large as if it would burst.

Character of pain: There \s tearing, shooting pain with .sensation of pressive fulness in head as if
head was going; to burst. Great tension in the occiput before menses. There is inability to think or

perform any mental labour. It causes headache.

Modality: Aggravation: from slightest mental labour, from sun or working under gas light;

SUMMER HEAT, during a thunderstorm.
