62 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Stomach :

Causation: Gastric complaints from overeating, bread and pastry; acids, alcohol, vinegar, sour and
bad wine; after cold bathing; overheating or hot weather.

Character: Digestion is easily disturbed and weak. Loss of appetite; constant discharge of flatus up
and down for years; belching and eructation, pasting of ingesta. Nausea with desire to vomit. Gouty and
rheumatic metastasis to stomach and bowels.

Stool :

Due to above-mentioned reasons, the patient may have alternate diarrhoea and constipation. Old
people will have morning diarrhoea, but suddenly become constipated.

Diarrhoea :

Stool is watery with little hard lumps or contains undigested food particles. Diarrhoea from dietetic
error, especially in summer. Cutting pain in stomach. Diarrhoea may end in dysentery.

Constipation :

Alternate diarrhoea and constipation. Sensation that much stool would pass, but only little hard stool
is evacuated with much flatus. There may be haemorrhage from the bowel alongwith hard stool.
Haemorrhoids may also protrude. With discharge of mucous, staining yellow. There will be burning
pricking pain in anus with catarrhal proctitis. Mucus piles with ichorous discharge from anus may also
be noticed.,

Respiratory organs :

Loss of voice from becoming Overheated. Whooping cough aggravated by overheating in summer
or in a warm room, from cold washing. Burning sensation in the chest with oppressed breathing. Pulse is

hard and rapid. Sensitive to cold air.
Modality: Aggravation from taking cold.
Skin :
There is disposition to abnormal growth of skin. The skin becomes very thick at various places.

Finger nails do not grow rapidly; crushed nails grow in and split like warts and horny spots.

Large horny corns on soles of feet (Ran.b., Hypericurn). Very sensitive when walking, especially
over stone pavements. Measle like eruptions, smooth wart, or horny growth. Eruptions like boils and
blisters, dry gangrene; scaly pustular eruptions with burnning and itching; worse at night. Nostril and labial
commissures are sore, cracked and crusty. Corners of mouth cracked and fissured (Condu., Nitric-acid.)

Child :

The child can be aptly compared to swine due to its obesity and thick skin.

The baby CANNOT BEAR TO BE TOUCHED OR LOOKED AT. Very angry atlittle attention; does
not wish to speak or to be spoken to.

Child is very sad, weeping, peevish and irritable.

The baby also often suffers from gastric complaints and has a THICK MILKY WHITE COATING ON
THE TONGUE.

Child always craves for acids and pickles.
