172 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

8. Sensation as of drops of water are falling on or from a single part; on the head, from
anus, stomach, heart, etc.

9. Ailments from : Gonorrhoea.

PARTICULARS

Urinary Symptoms :

Cannabis sativa is adapted to urinary troubles, arising from or brought on by gonorrhoea, the
cardinal symptoms of which are as follows:

Stage: In acute and inflammatory stage of gonorrhoea especially in the first stage; in urethritis,

Urethra is very much sensitive to touch and pressure. Cannot walk with legs close together.
Keeps the legs wide apart because touch hurts the urethra.

Sensation: “Burning” sensation in urethra during and after urination.

Character of pain: Stiching and tearing pain along the urethra in a zigzag direction. Pain extending
from orifice of urethra to backwards; burning and bitting while urinating. There is frequent, violent and
constant urging to urinate.

During urination: Most painful and diffucult urination. There is stitching pain in urethra while the
urine flows. Violent pain at the close of urination.

After urination: Pressing out feeling at the orfice of the urethra after urination.

Character of Urine: Urine is mixed with blood; scalds when passing; there is thick, yellowish
gonorrhoea! discharge from the urethra.

Modality: Aggravation from touch.

Respiratory symptoms :
Suited especially in bronchitis and asthma.
Sensation: There is sensation of weight on the chest.

Character of cough: Rattling cough with wheezing and dyspnoea where the patient can breathe
better only by standing up. Must have windows open.

Character of Sputa; Cough with green viscid expectoration, salty sputa with blood spifting.
Character of pain; During coughing there is Stiching pain in the chest.

Modalities:
* Amelioration: By standing up.
For threatened abortion complicated with gonorrhoea, this drug is an excellent remedy.
There may also be sexual over excitement in either sex.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: From lying down and going upstairs.
Amelioration: By standing up.

Relations :

Antidotes: Camphor and Merc.
Similar to: Cantharis and Cup. met.
