MEDORRHINUM

“The Gonorrhoeal SWAN A. Nosode
Cocci

—_—

INTRODUCTION

Medorrhinum is one of the greatest
constitutional remedies contributed _ by
Hahnemann to Materia Medica. Although Thuja
claims to be the king of anti-sycotic remedies, in
actual effect, Medorrhinum ranks PARI PASSU
with the “KING” and merits the consideration of
having an equally wide range of action as that of
Thuja. Having been derived from the
Gonorrhoeal cocci, it has been found most
efficacious in eradicating any and _ every
complaint, by whatever name they are called,
brought on and consequent upon Gonorrhoea. The dormant curative power of the same
contagious principle has been utilised, through potentisation, for complete annihilation
of all diseases and manifestations produced by gonococcus itself. Master Hahnemann
found’ in the Gonorrhoeal cocci the immense.curative value of not only all diseases of
sycotic origin, but also diseases caused by psora and syphilis. MEDORRHINUM bears
the same relation to deep seated sycotic chronic affections of spinal cord and the
sympathetic nervous system as PSORINUM does to deep seated chronic affections of skin
and mucous membrane and SYPHILINUM to all syphilitic affections.

Abdominal disorders, Asthma, Cough, Diabetes, Epilepsy, Eye affection, Gonorrhoea
suppressed, Headache, Liver affection, Mental disorders, Nocturnal enufesis, Paralysis,
Rheumatism, Throat and Lung affections, Urinary troubles, Tumours, Warts, etc.

SPHERES OF ACTION

Medorrhinum predominantly affects the nervous system, brain, spinal cord and its
meninges, mind, lymphatics, skin and mucous membane, joints, cardio-vascular and
respiratory system, gastro intestinal tract, female genital organs, urinary and sexual
organs, all troubles which can be traced to a sycotic origin.

PATHOGENESIS
Medorrhinum affects:

(a) The brain and spinal cord, producing paralysis, trembling and tidgety feeling
with loss of memory.

(b) Cardio-vascular and respiratory systems resulting in dyspnoea, pain and cough.

