500 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

CONSTITUTION
Psoric constitution, prone to skin affections.

Make-up of the body: Lean and thin person with skin eruptions having fithy smell of
the body which persists even after washing.

Relation with heat and cold: Extremely Chilly patient (Hepar sulph., silicea), Wants
warm clothings even in hot summer weather.

Miasm: Undoubtedly psora is in the background.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. In chronic cases when the well selected remedy fails to relieve or permanently
improve and when even sulphur seems indicated but fails to act, Psorinum should
be thought of.

2. Great debility : Independent of any organic disease, especially the weariness
remaining after acute diseases with lack of reaction, i.e, phagocytosis defective,
when well chosen remedies fail to act.

3. Extremely chilly : Wants warm clothing even in hot summer weather (Hepar
sulph., silicea).

4. All secretions and excretions of the BODY ARE FOUL SMELLING HAVE
CARRION LIKE ODOUR.

. Skin eruptions appear in every winter which is dry, thick and dirty looking.

. Hungry in the middle of the night. Must have something to eat.

. Profuse perspiration after acute disease with relief of all sufferings (Nat. mur.).

. There is decided amelioration of all complaints by lying down and by perspiration.
. Feels unusually well day before the attack begins.

10. Mind : Very much anxious, full of fear, melancholic, very depressed with suicidal
thoughts; despondent. Fears that he will die, that he will fail in business. Religious
melancholy, very depressed and despair of salvation. Thinks that he has sinned
away his days of grace; he sees darkness around him; feels no joy in his family;
despair of recovery from his sickness. Extremely irritable and wants to be alone.
Fears that he will die, that he will fail in his business; making his own life and that
of those around him intolerable. Anxious, full of fear and evil forebodings (Phos).

11. Ailments from: Suppression of skin eruption, change of weather, exposure to cold,
etc.

come nN Dw

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Change of weather.

Character. Chronic: headache. Periodic type of headache; every two or three days, recurrent
headache. Violent rush of blood to the head. Headache is violent, throbbing hammering type of pain with
sensation as if the brain were too large. Headache at change of weather.
