a
Medorrhinum 401

14. There is general aggravation FROM SUNR.SE TO SUNSET, when thinking of
ailments, heat, covering and sweat.

Amelioration at seashore (rev. of Natrum mur, and Syphilinum).

15. Mind : Following are the very characteristic and sinking mental symptoms of this
great remedy.

There is GREAT WEAKNESS OF MEMORY. The patient is much worried about his
forgetfulness; cannot remember very familiar names, words or initials; forgets not
only his friend’s name, also his own name.

Cannot spell correctly even very common words.

Always has WEEPING TENDENCY (Puls. and Lil. tig.). Cannot speak without
weeping; unable to narrate the symptoms. Often the question is to be repeated as
she loses herself. But the Medorrhinum patient predicts future events very correctly.
Feels matters most sensitively before they occur. Always anticipates, anticipates
her own death.

He/she is too much irritated at very silly matters; also peevish and impatient.
Anxious, sensitive, nervous and fastidious.

Time passes very slowly (Alumina, Arg. nit and Cannabis Ind.). Wants to do
everything in a hurry and then gets exhausted and fatigued.

Dreams of drinking and of insatiable thirst.
Many of the mental symptoms are aggravated whern thinking about them.

16. Ailments from : Cases of maltreated and/or suppressed gonorrhoea may be treated
with Medorrhitium giving immense relief to the patients, when the best selected
remedies give no relief or fail to permanently improve, but only palliate, such
ailments are as follows :-

(a) Disease of spinal cord and its meninges, with or without organic lesions, ending
in paralysis and/or trembling, neuralgia, rheumatism, gout, etc., which can be
traced to a sycotic origin.

(b) Scirrhus, carcinoma or cancer, either, acute or chronic in development, when the
symptoms point to a history of sycosis.

(c) In cases of women, chronic ovarits, salpingitis, growth of uterus and ovaries,
both benign and malignant, with or without sycotic origin.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Sensation: Head feels very heavy and is drawn backward. Sensation of tightness and constriction,
extending down the spine; weight and pressure on vertex.

Character of pain: There is intense burning pain in the brain which extends down the spine.
Modality: Headache aggravated from jarring of cars, exhaustion or hard work.
