730 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Smelling bottle (Ammon. C.) A bottle containing Ammonium carbo nate used for smelling.
“Sneaking”, nervous form fever (Cocc.) Fever without remarkable signs & symptoms.

Snuffles (Amman. C., Lye.) Obstructed nasal respiration, especially in the newborn infant
sometimes due to congenital syphilis.

Somersault (Lye.) Leap or fall in which one turns heels over head before bending on one’s |
feet.

Somnambulism (Kali Br., Sit.) Sleep walking, a state of dissociated consciousness in which
sleeping and waking states are combined, considered normal in children but as an illness
having a hysterical basis in adults.

Sopor (Cinch, Hell. V, Op.) Stupor; an unnaturally deep sleep.

Sordes (Hyos.) Dried, brown crusts v/hich form in the mouth, especially on the lips and teeth,
Sore (Phos, Arg. M., Bap.): Painfull; ulcerated.

Sour Krout (Bry, Petr.) Dried cabbage leaves soaked in strong saline water.

Spare, dry, thin subject (Alum) Lean, thin person.

Spasm : clonic (Cup. M., Plb.) Spasm in which rigidity of muscles is followed immediately
by relaxation.

Spasm : tonic (Plb.) Spasm in which rigid’ty of muscles persists for a considerable time.
Squirming Sensation (Nat. M.) Wriggling sensation, i-e., crawling sensation.
Staggering (Kali Br.) Moving unsteadily.

Stercoraceous (Pyr.) Fecal; Stercoral; relating to or containing faces.

Stertor (Arn. M.) Loud snoring; sonorous breathing.

Strabismus (Tab.) Squint i.e. in co-ordinated action of the muscles of the eyeball, such that
the visual axis of the two eyes fail to meet at the objective point.

Strangling (Ipec.) Suffocating.

Strangulated hernia (Nux. V., Plb) Hernia not reducible by ordinary means.
Strangury (Berb, Canth, Tereb.) Slow and painfull micturition.

Stretching (Amy I. N.) Extension of limbs in various direction as usually after sleep.

Strumous constitution (Apis, Baryta C. Crot. H., Diph.) Scrofulous constitution : A
constitutional state, occurring in the young marked by a lack of resisting power of the
tissues, predisposing to tuberculosis; lymphatism is present and there is a proneness to
eczematous eruptions, ulceration, glandular swellings, respiratory catarrhs etc.
tuberculosis of the glands, bones or joints is common, Two types are recognized - (1) The
lymphatic or phlegmatic, in which there is a tendency to fat with a coarse muddy
complexion, thick lips, coarse hair; (2) Sanguine, in which the skin is clear changing
readily from pale to pink, the eyes blue and the hair fine and silky, with spareness of
figure and mental activity (Stedman’s Diet.). The most prominent feature of this
