Anacardium Orientale 55

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. All gone Sensation in stomach, comes on only’when stomach is empty and is relieved
by eating and during the process of digestion (Chel. Jodum, Petroleum, Sepia).

2, Plug-like sensation in the inner parts such as anus, oesophagus, etc.

3, Constrictive sensation of a hoop or band around the parts e.g. head, knee, etc.
(Sulphur, Carbolic acid).

4. Great desire for Stool, but with the effort the desire passes off without evacuation.

5. Symptoms prone to go from right to left (Lyco.).

6. Mind : Anacardium patients manifest very peculiar and striking mental symptoms
which are as follows:-

There is SUDDEN LOSS OF MEMORY, the patient is very much disturbed about
his forgetfulness. The patient is so forgetful that he even forgets his own name and
the names of well known places and most intimate friends.

There is irresistible desire to curse.and swear (Lil. tig., Lac, can., Nit. ac.).

Sensation of a hoop or band around the parts. Feels he has two wills; one
commanding him to do what the other forbids and he does not know what to do. In
one ear a devil prompts him to do murder, in the other an angel counsels him to do
acts of benevolence.

In Anacardium patient, there is very strange temper. He laughs at serious matter
and becomes serious over laughable matter (Bar. Carb., Platina).

When walking, he feels as if some one is following him.
Great illusion, delusion and hallucinations.

Suspicious—doubts, everything around him. Takes bad side of everything and
becomes violent. Cowardice.

Very cruel, malicious and wicked; inflicts bodily injury upon himself.

Absent minded and hypochondriacal. Lack of confidence in himself and others.
Anxiety and feeling of impending misfortune.

7. Ailments from : Bad effects of mental excitement, excessive utilisation of brain for
purposeless thoughts, consequences of fright and mortifications, sedentary habits.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causasion : Nervous headache of sedentary persons from anxiety, fear or fright.
Location: In forehead.temples, vertex and occiput.
Sensation; Of a plug in the inner part.
Character of Pain: Pressing pain as if from a plug in the inner part.
