Magnesia Muriatica 395

13) Continual rising of white froth into the mouth.

14) Eructations tasting like rotten eggs (Arn., Ant.T., Graph. Psor).

15) Headache : Worse from motion and in open air better from strong pressure and
wrapping up warmly (Sil., Stron.)

16) Urine, Pale, yellow can only be passed by pressing abdominal muscles.

17) Ailments from—Sea bathing.

PARTICULARS

—— :
Time : Every six weeks.

Location : Forehead and around the eyes.

Sensation : As if it would burst.

Character of headache : Congestive headache at menstrual period in hysterical women.
Modalities : Aggravation—from motion, in open air.

Amelioration : From lying down, strong pressure, wrapping up warmly.

Gastrointestinal Symptoms

Mouth : Blisters on lips. A coated large flabby yellow tongue. Tongue feels burnt. Swollen and easily
bleeding gums. Toothache unbearable when food touches the teeth.

Stomach : Appetite poor, bad taste in mouth. Eructations like rotten eggs. Continued rising-of white
froth into mouth. Cannot digest milk, it causes pain in stomach and passes undigested. Complaints
aggravated from salty food & sea bathing.

Liver: Chronic liver complaints with tenderness and pressing pain extending to-spine and
epigastrium. Enlarged, sore mvt with flatulence.

Aggravation : Lying on right side, after food.

Amelioration ; By hard pressure.

Constipation : It is mostly indicated in obstinate constipation and of infants during dentition. The

characteristic stool is hard, knotty, scanty, passes with difficulty with crumbling at verge of anus. After
stools rectum feels sore & painful. Constipation at sea (Bry., Platina.)

Menses : The flow is black and clotted. Profuse at night, in bed causing hysterical symptoms. The
Menstrual pain is generally relieved by having back pressed. There is great excitement at every period,
and pains in the back while walking and in the thighs when sitting. Eruptions on face and forehead worse
before menses.

Leucorrhoea : After exertion, after every stool, or following uterine spasm. It may be followed by
Metrorrhagia. Leucorrhoea two weeks after menses for three or four days.

General modalities :

Aggravation—Lying on right side, sea bathing, immediately after eating.
Amelioration—From pressure, motion, open air (except headache).

Relations :

Antidotes : Cham. Camph.
Compare : Chamomilla in diseases of children.
