478 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Character of sputa; Sputa is rusty, blood coloured, or purulent.
Character of pain: Sharp stitching pain in the chest, respiration quick, whole body trembles while
coughing.
Modalities:
* Aggravation: By lying on left side, and from cold air.

¢ Amelioration: By lying on right-side.

Pneumonia :

Stage: Usually Phosphorus is indicated in the hepatisation stage of the disease.
Location: Affects the upper lobe of the left lung.

Sensation: Heaviness on the chest, as if some weight is lying with tightness on the chest, burning
sensation in the chest. Dryness of the air passage, especially in the upper chest.

Character of cough: Dry tickling hard cough; irritation of larynx excites cough.
Character of sputa: Sputa is rusty, blood coloured or purulent.
Character of pain: While coughing, there is stitching pain in the chest (Bry., Kali carb.).
Modalities:
* Aggravation: By lying on left side or painful side; when going from warm room to cold (rev.
of Bry.); from talking, laughing, reading ahd towards evening.”
* Amelioration: By lying on right side.
Concomitants: Desire for cold, refreshing drink.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

Stomach : Empty all-gone sensation in stomach. The patient craves cold food and drink, icy
cold, refreshing, juicy things; ice-cream relieves the gastric pain.

Great burning in stomach which is better by cold food and drink, but as soon as water becomes
warm in stomach, it is thrown up in the form or vomiting. Sometimes there may be VOMITING OF
BRIGHT RED BLOOD.

Constipation : Stool is slender, long, dry, tough and hard. Dog like stool, voided with great
difficulty and straining (Causticum).
Diarrhoea :
* Causation: As soon as anything enters into the rectum.
¢ Time: In the morming.

* Character of stool: Profuse, watery stool, pouring away as from a hydrant, involuntary stool
with sago-like particles. SENSATION AS IF THE ANUS REMAINS WIDE OPEN (Apis, Secale cor.).

Liver : In cirrhosis of liver due to excessive Indulgence, after strong liquors; fatty degeneration of the
liver; with malignant jaundice with sharp cutting pain in the liver, accompanied by nausea and vomiting.

Modality: Relieved by cold food and cold drink but as soon as becomes warm in stomach, it is
thrown up.

Haemorrhage :

Phosphorus is a great anti-haemorrhagic drug. Haemorrhage s caused by degeneration of tissue and
occurs from small injuries or cut.
