144 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

i

2. The whole body feels, as if caged and each wire is being twisted tighter and
tighter.

3. Oppression of chest, as from a great weight; as if an iron band prevented norma]
breathing and motion.

4. Sensation of a cord tightly tied around the lower part of chest marking attachment
of diaphragm with heart.

5. Heart feels, as if clasped and unclasped BY AN IRON HAND: as if bound and it hag
no room to beat.

6. Fluttering palpitation day and night, worse when walking and lying on left side and
at approach of menses.

7. Pains everywhere, darting, and springing up like a chain of lightning and pressing
with a sharp vice-like grip, only to be renewed again.

8. Haemorrhage from nose, lungs, stomach, rectum, bladder, etc.

9. Cactus has the weakness and coldness of the extremities, which characterise many
heart diseases.

10. There is vertigo on deep breathing.
11. Dreams of falling down during sleep.
‘12. Fear of death because he believes that the disease is incurable (Ars.).

13. Menstrual flow ceases when lying down (Bovista, Causticum, Lil. tig—rev. of Mag.,
carb., Ammon. carb., Kreosote).

14. Periodicity is well marked. Fever paroxysms return at 11 a.m. and 11 p.m.
15. Many symptoms are aggravated when lying down or come on when lying down.
16. Aliments from : Rheumatism, sun, damp weather and disappointment of love.

PARTICULARS

Cardio-vascular system or Heart :
Causation: Rheumatism,

Sensation: of constriction in the heart, as if an iron band prevented its normal movement. AS IF
CLASPED AND UNCLASPED WITH AN IRON BAND and there is no room to beat, Whole body feels.
as if caged and each wire is twisted tighter and tighter.

Charecter of pain and symptoms: Pains are of pricking nature, impeding breathing and
movements of the body. Oppression of Chest; cannot lie on the left side. Dyspnoea from least exertion.

There may be dull heavy pain, aggravated by pressure and leading to suffocating respiration.
Pulse is quick, throbbing, tense and hard. Sometimes, intermittent and feeble.

Pains in the apex of heart; shooting down to left arm and to the end of fingers.

Pains go round to axilla, back and scapula of the left side.

Endocardial murmurs; excessive impulse and increased precordial dullness, enlargement of righ!
ventricle.
