, “a

phosphorus 477
—_—=

10.
il.

13.

14.

15.

(Zincum met., Med., Merc. sol.), especially in evening, at twilight ani when lying on
left side. Restlessness with anxiety (Aconite, Ars., Rhus. tox.).

Most of the complaints are aggravated when lying on left side—restlessness, cough,
pain, etc.

Vicarious menstruation. Epistaxis instead of menses (Bry.).

Increased sexual appetite, even leading the patient to mania followed by impotency.
Perspiration of Phosphorus smells like Sulphur.

Swelling of both the eye lids. (Upper eye lid—Kali. c., Lower eye lid—Apis).

During pregnancy, unable to drink water, sight of it causes nausea and vomiting.
Must close her eyes while bathing.

Mind : The patient is very much apathetic and indifferent to friends and surroundings
(Phos. acid.. China), even to his own children (Sepia), unwilling to talk, thinks slowly,
moves sluggishly.

Weary of life, full of gloomy forebodings (Psorinum).

Patient is quite intelligent, but physically weak (Lyco., Tuberculmum). There is great
fear in darkness (Calc.carb.).

Fear of death when alone. 6 Fean. 64 thunderstorm

Suspects as if something was creeping out from every corner of the house.
Oversensitive to external impressions light, noise, touch, odour, etc.
Insanity with an exaggerated idea of one’s own importance (Platina).

The patient wants to be magnetised (Calcarea carb., Silicea).

Ailments from : Mental exertion, strong emotion, strong odours, gas vapours,
thunderstorm, lightning, sexual excess, loss of vital fluids, sprains, wounds, lifting,
exposure to drenching rain (Rhus tox., Duleamara, Gels.), tobacco (Camphor, Ignatia),
by wahsing clothes (Sepia), having hair cut (Bell., Glonoine); excessive use of table
salt, ete.

PARTICULARS

Hoarseness :

Aphonia, larynx is very painful. Clergy man's sore throat; violent tickling in larynx with rawness,
cannot talk on account of pain in the larynx,

In Aphonia, when Phos. (Acon., Spongia) fails Cina should be thought of.
Hoarseness is worse in the evening while talking, laughing, reading, cold air, etc.

Cough :
Side: Left side of the chest is usually affected.

Sensation: As if some weight is lying on the chest.
Character of cough: Hard, dry, tight cough, with congestion of lung.
