Opium 463

Bed feels so hot she cannot lie on it: moves often in search of a cold place. It is one of
the topmost medicines for com-plaints originating from fright, when fear or the idea of
fear remains or the cause of it comes before the eyes. There is also a sensation of bodily
well being and great happiness. Great sensibility to sound, light, and faintest odors.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal Tract:
Mouth: Dryness of mouth, Tongue black. Paralysed. Intense thirst (unquenchable).

Stomach : All gone, sinking, hungry feeling is not relieved by eating. Patient is
hungry but has no desire to eat. Nausea, retching and vomiting, with sourness of
stomach. There is inactivity, sluggishness of digestive organs causing reverse peristalsis
which results in faecal vomiting.

Abdomen : Abdomen is hard, bloated & tympanitic. Colic after lead poisoning or
painter’s colic. Very violent, griping as if intestines are cut to pieces. Colic is
accompanied with an urge for stool and there is discharge of hard faeces.

Diarrhoea : Causation—After fright, from paralysis of rectum. Involuntary stool
after fright (Gels.) Stool is black, offensive & frothy, Persistent diarrhoea in those treated
with large doses of the drug,

Constipation :

Causation : Lead poisoning. Inaction or paretic condition of intestine. Opium is
suited to almost uncomparable chronic constipation, Opium renders the instestines so
sluggish that the most active purgatives lose their power. Constipation of children and of
corpulent, good natured women. There is no activity, no desire to go to stool.

Character of stool : Stool hard dry round black balls (Cheli., Plumb., Thuja). Faeces
protrude and recede (Sil., Thuja, Sam.)

Urine : There is involuntary urination or retention after fright. Paralysis of bladder
or sphincter may be after excessive use of tobacco, in nursing children after passion of
nurse or in fever or acute illness,

Child : Look—Children with light hair, lax muscles, and want of bodily irritability.
In marasmus, child looks like a little dried up old man with wrinkled skin. They suffer
from spasms & convulsions after sudden retrocession of acute exanthema, from nursing
after fright of mother (Hyos.—after anger of mother, Cham., Nux Vom.) and from crying.
During spasm eyes half open and upturned (eyes turned downward-Aethusa). Screams
before and during spasms (Apis., Hell.) Convulsion in warm room. He becomes
unconscious and cold as corpse after warm bath. Child usually constipated with hard,
black, dry stool like sheep dung.

There is also involuntary stool after fright and involuntary urination or retention in
nursing children after a fit of passion in nurse, Child is hot blooded with hot
perspiration. He wants cool open air, wants to be uncovered. Opium is to be thought of
for those children whose moral sense has never been developed, who lie and steal.
