Ammonium Carbonicum 49

Throat :
There is putrid sore throat.
The tonsils and glands are engorged.
There is tendency to gangrenous ulceration of tonsils.
Diphtheritic attack with Stoppage of nose.
Cough is severe every morning from 3 to 4 a.m.
Cough dry, from tickling in throat as from dust.
Aggravation from cold and relief from dry weather.

Emphysema :
Ammon. Carb. is one of the best remedies for emphysema, with much oppression in breathing and
tired feeling in chest.

Heart :

There is great dyspnoea with palpitation, and faintness. Dyspnoea is worse by exertion or on
ascending steps; WORSE IN A WARM ROOM.

Menses :

Ammon. carb. is one of the best medicines for menstrual troubles which are as follows:-

Time: Too early.

Quantity: Too profuse, copious at night and when sitting.

Duration: Lasting too long.

Character of blood: Acrid, making the things sore. Concomitant: CHOLERA LIKE SYMPTOMS
AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF MEANSES (Bovista, Ver. alb.)

At the time of menses, there is too much colic which is griping in character, fatigue especially of
thigh and with sadness (Nitric acid, Stannum).

There is great yawning and chilliness during menses, Furthermore, there may also be toothache at
the time of menses.

Leucorrhoea :

Leucorrhoea is watery, profuse and acrid, burning from uterus, excoritates the vulva,

Fever :

During fever, which may be eruptive or non-eruptive, the body is red as if from scarlatina, with deep
sleep and stertorous breathing. There may be miliary rashes or faintly developed eruptions from defective
vitality with threatened paralysis of brain.

This remedy is also quite suitable for whitlow (Panaritium) which is deep seated, with periosteal pain.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: Cold, wet weather; poultices; from washing, during menses.
Amelioration: Lying on abdomen, on painful side, in dry weather and warmth,

Relations :
It antidotes poisoning with Rhustox. and stings of insects.
Ammon carb. is inimical to Lachesis.
Antidoted by: Amica, Camphor.
