Arsenicum Album 87

8. Thirst for small quantity of water at short intervals in acute states but in chronic

10.
11.

12.

13.

state there is no thirst. For acute or chronic ptomaine poisoning, Arsenic is an
excellent remedy.

Cannot bear the smell or sight of food (Colchicum, Sepia, Stannum).

All symptoms are aggravated at MID-DAY AND MIDNIGHT. (1 to 2 a.m//p.m.) and
ameliorated by heat.

Mind : Arsenic patient exhibits peculiar and striking mental symptoms which ar as
follows:—

The patient is depressed, irritable, EXTREMELY RESTLESS AND ANXIOUS.

There is great FEAR OF DEATH or thinks that his diasease is incurable; fear of
death is more marked when alone or when going to bed.

He is extremely fastidious. Wants everything in order, neat and clean. Even a
picture hanging on the wall slightly tilted must be adjust properly. So Arsenic
patient is known as “A gold-headed cane patient.” Weak memory due to confusion
in head.

He suffers so much that he decides to commit suicide. Aversion to meet people, even
with acquainted ones because he imagines that he has offended them, but knows
not how, when and where; yet fears to be alone.

Sad, tearful and anxious mood. :

The patient is very much depressed,melancholic, full of despair and indifference.
Still he is very ANXIOUS, FEARFUL, RESTLESS AND FULL OF ANGUISH. Yet
he is very irritable, sensitive, peevish and easily angered. Although mentally very
restless, he is physically too weak to move.

Dreams are full of sorrow and fear; dreams of thunderstorm, fire, darkness and
death.

Ailments from, chill, in winter, taking ice, ice-cream, cold fruits, decayed food or
animal matter whether by inoculation, olfaction or ingestion, poor diet, continued
drainage of body fluids, anaemia, abuse of alcohol, sour beer, bad sausage, strong
cheese, ptomaine poisoning, tobacco, abuse of quinine, iodine, climbing mountains
and sea bathing.

PARTICULARS
Headache :

etc.

Causation: Exposure to cold, taking ice cream, decayed food, loss of vital fluid, abuse of alcohol,

Location: According to Kent, Arsenic has periodical headache in all parts of head: even forehead is

congested.

Character of pain: Headache with throbbing and burning. Occipital headache is so severe as to

make the patient dazed, feels as if the skull would burst. Sensation as if there is vibration and looseness in
brain. Head is hot. Headache every two weeks.
