284 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Stomach :

There is canine hunger or alternate loss of appetite with dislike for all food, There may be
regurgitation and eructation of food in mouthfuls afterdating.

Distension and pressure in the abdomen after eating. The patient may also have flatulent dyspepsia
with heat and burning in stomach.

There is nausea followed by Vomiting immediately after eating. As soon as food is eaten, the
patient leaves the table suddenly and with one effort vomits everything eaten, After vomiting, the patient
can sit down and eat again as before in stomachful. Vomiting sour, acid and full of the smell of ingesta.
Diarrhoea :

Time: At night (China, Puls., Chel).

Character: Painless, with ineffectual urging; stool contains undigested food particles.

Modality: Aggravation at night, WHILE EATING AND DRINKING.

Concomitants: With diarrhoea, there is good appetite and prolapse of rectum. The diarrhoea causes
progressive emaciation of the patient.

Constipation :
Cause: From intestinal atony.

Character of stool: Stool is dry, knotty, with ineffectual urging. Stool is followed by backache and
cramping pain in the rectum; prolapse of rectum and itching of anus at night.

Concomitants: Along with hard, dry, knotty, stool, there is prolapse of rectum and itching of anus.

Menses :
Time: Too early.
Quantity: Too profuse.
Duration: Too long lasting.

Character of blood: Bright red, easily coagulable. Discharge of long pieces of membrane from
uterus; intermittent flow; returns after 2 or 3 days; in women who are too weak, debilitated, chlorotic and

extremely pale,yet has a fierly red face with pale, watery, debilitating flow.
Concomitants: With menses, there is ringing in the ears.

Cough :
Time: Only in the daytime (Euphrasia, Staphysagria).

Character: Dry, spasmodic, with cough there is pain in occiput. Chest oppressed with breathing
difficulties. There may also be haemoptysis with red blood—stained sputa.

Modality: Cough is relieved by lying down and eating.

Rheumatism :
Side: Rheumatism of the /Jeft shoulder.

Character: Tearing pain, inability to raise the arm. Rheumatic pain in the deltoid muscle. Violent

wie in muscles and along the nerves, tearing and stinging nature of pain. Rest brings on the pain of
orearm.

Modality: Aggravation from the cold and rest, and relieved by slowly moving about.
