Lachesis 369

14. Haemorrhagic diathesis : Small wounds bleed easily and profusely (Crot. hor.,

Kreosote, Ham., China, Secale cor., Phos); bleeding with malignant and asthenic
inflammation, gangrene and pyaemic condition. Character of blood is dark, watery,
offensruie and non-coagulable.

15. Mind : Lachesis patient develops very striking mental symtpoms which are as
follows :-

Great loquacity : Wants to talk all the time, but without any relevancy or
consistency; no head or tail; jumps from one idea to another, each word leading to a
story. The patient thinks that he/she is under the control of some super-human
being and has power to bless or curse, even has command over others and actually
expects that others should obey him/her. Feels she is empowered from heaven above
to steal and/or to commit murders, etc.

She is possessed of some religious mania and insanity.

She is very JEALOUS AND SUSPICIOUS. The aspect runs through the whole of
the mental plane. Suspects everything around her; has no confidence in others.
Dreams of snakes (Lac can.); of own death and funeral, etc.

Sometimes overjoyed and sometimes melancholic and sad, unhappy, depressed;
aggravated in the morning on waking.

Memory is weak and there may be inability to think.Feels she is full of wickedness
and has committed some serious and unpardonable sin and crime; that she is going
to die and will go to hell ete.

All mental symptoms are worse after sleep.

16. Ailments from : Long lasting grief, sorrow, fright, jealous, vexation, disappointed
love, ete. (Aurum met., Ignatia. Phosphorus). Bad effects of poison, wounds
postmortem, suppression of quinine.

PARTICULARS
Headache :

Headache in drunkards with high bleod pressure.

Location: Left sided headache, tendency to go to right.

Sensation: As if all the blood has gone towards the head.

Character of headache: Congestive type of headache as if skull would burst.

Character of pain: There is pressing and bursting pain In temples. The head Is very much sensitive
to touch.

Modalitiy: Aggravation from motion, pressure, after sleep. Amelioration by menstrual flow (Zincum

met., Allium cepa).

Throat :

Lachesis is especially indicated In tonsiliitis and diphtheria.

Location: Begins on the left side and extends to the right.

re
