Ya

Magnesia Carbonica 393

Diarrhoea :
¢ Time: Occurs regularly every three weeks.

¢ Character of stool Green, watery, frothy, LIKE A FROG POND SCUM, white very much sour
with great tenesmus. Milk passes undigested in nursing children.

* Character of pain; Diarrhoea is preceded by severe cutting doubling up colic.
e Modality: Aggravation after taking milk.

Female genital organs :
Menses : Usually Mag. carb., is indicated in DYSMENORRHOEA.
* Time: Too late.
* Character of blood: Very much acrid, dark, pitch-like, very difficult to wash off (Med.).
¢ Before menses: Sore throat with coryza and nasal stoppage (Lac can.).

¢ During menses: There is labour like pain; cutting colicky pain in the abdomen with severe
backache, weakness and chilliness.

Flow only at night during sleep or WHEN LYING DOWN. Ceases when walking (Kreosote,
Ammon. carb.—rev. of Lilium tig.).

Baby ;

Look of the baby: Especially in children of tubercular parents there is tendency to marasmus.
The child’s muscles are flabby. The child will not thrive in spite of good feeding. Emaciation is more
markd on the back of the head.

Mind: Mentally the baby is very much irritable, puny and sickly in appearance.
The whole body of the baby smells sour e.g. sweat, urine, stool, etc.

Stool: Mag. carb. produces inactivity of the rectum and anus. The ‘stool is large, hard.
and'crumbling. Stool is partly expelled and their crumble and break up in many pieces.

When diarrhoea sets in, the stool is green, watery, frothy like frqq-pond-scum, STOOL IS VERY
MUCH SOUR SMELLING, with great tenesmus.

Desires and aversions: The baby has inordinate craving for mea{ and aversion to milk which, if
taken passes out undigested in nursing children,
General Modalities :
Aggravation:; Warmth of bed, change of weather, every 3 weeks, rest, milk, during menses.
Amelioration: Warm air and walking in open air.

Relations :
Complementary: Chamomilla.

Antidoted by:Arsenic, Mercurius, Nux vom., Puls., Rheum.
It Antidotes: Acetic acid.
