KALI SULPHURICUM

" Synonym : Common Names:
Potassium Sulphate Sulphate of Potash

This remedy, according to Schussler, is the
function remedy of the epidermis and of the ant ine
epithelium. A deficiency of this cell salt causes a ’
yellow, slimy deposit on the tongue, slimy, thin, : <*
or decidedly yellow or greenish discharge and “4 a
secretions of watery matter from any of the
mucous surfaces, and epithelial or epidermal
desquamation. The yellowness is probably due to
retrograde metamorphosis — fatty degeneration
of inflammatory products and of affected
epithelium, etc.

Kali sulph is found in the cells and in the
intercellular fluids, muscles, nerves, epithelium and in the blood corpuscles. It plays an
important role as the carrier of oxygen. A deficiency of Kali sulph may, according to
location and extent, occasion the following symptoms: Feeling of heaviness and
weariness, vertigo, chilliness, palpitation, fear, melancholy, toothache, headache, pains
in the limbs, which intermit and change location. These pains are worse in closed rooms,
warmth and towards evening and better in fresh, open air that is rich in oxygen.

Epidermis and epithelial cells poorly fed with oxygen loosen and desquamate freely.
If oxygen is brought to the suflering parts by means of Kali sulph. the formation of new
cells is thereby furthered, and these hasten, by their activity, to promote the

desquamation of the old ones.

Dr. Schuessler found that potassium sulphate is instrumental in the oxygen
exchange with iron in all cells that contain iron. Thus we see affinity with the respiratory
system. Deficient amounts of Kali sulph are seen with symptoms of weariness,
congestion of yellow mucus, boils, and second stage infections.

Sutpburicum 30 °

ka

CHARACTERISTIC INDICATIONS
The chief indications for this remedy are as follows:
1. It is applicable to the third stage of inflammmation.

2. Profuse yellow mucous discharge. Yellow stools, yellow diarrhea, yellow slimy
tongue

3. Profuse desquamation of epidermis. Eczema, the skin peels off; sometimes with a
thick yellow discharge, There can be much itching which is worse at night.

4. All ailments are worse in a warm room and toward evening and better in cool, open
air.

681
