Kreasotum 359

Quantity: Too profuse.
Character of blood: black, very much offensive and acrid, causes rawness upon the skin and
genitals which are swollen.

Intermittent type of flow; At times almost ceasing and then commencing again.

Modality: Flow only on lying down (Bovista, Ammon, carb,, Mag. carb. Rev. of Cactus;
Causticum, Sabina and Lil.tig.). CEASES ON SITTING OR WALKING ABOUT. Cold drink relieves

menstrual pain.

Concomitants: Severe headache before and during menses. Roaring and humming in ears with
deafness before and during menses.
Leucorrhoea :

Time: Between the periods (Bovista, Borax, Con.).

Quantity: Very much acrid, corrosive, offensive and yellowish, causes rawness and soreness of
the parts wherever it touches. Has the odour of green corn; stiffens like starch, stains the linen yellow.

Pregnancy :
During pregnancy there is vomiting of sweetsh water with profuse ptyalism.
After pregnancy : There is lochia, which is dark, brown, very much offensive and acrid.
Almost ceases, then freshens up again with violent itching of vagina.
Urine :
There is incontinence of urine.
Great urging for urination, must hurry when desire comes to urinate. Dreams of urinating.

Character of urine : Urine is pale, copious, very much offensive and bloody, causes violent itching
of vulva and vagina.

Modality: Urine passes during first sleep or at first part of the night (Sepia).
Concomitants; Smarting and burning pain during and after micturition.

Baby :

Chilly baby easily affected by cold.

Child looks older than he really is.

Psoric and scrofulous baby with rapid emaciation.

Dentition is very painful: Teeth begin fo decay as soon as they appear with bluish spongy
gums.

Mentally the baby is irritable; wants this and that but is never satisfied, always wanting something new
but when offered flatly refuses it (Bry., Staphysagria, Cina, Cham.).

In cholera infantum: There is profuse, offensive, acrid stool causing rawness and soreness of parts,
with vomiting of food.

Nocturnal enuresis in baby, during the first sleep, from whichihe child is roused with difficulty.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: In open air, cold weather, from washing or bathing in cold water.
Amelioration: From warmth in general.
