462 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

2) Painlessness is a grand characteristic of opium. Patient complains of nothing,
wants nothing.

3) Sleep—It has many important sleep symptoms which are as follows :

(a) Sleepiness—It is one of Nash’s three remarkable remedies for sleepiness, others
being Antim Tart and Nux Moscheta.

(b) Sleep is heavy, stupid, with half-closed eyes during sleep.
(c) Stertorous rattling or breathing with great stuporous sleep.

(d) Sleeplessness with acuteness of hearing, clock striking and cocks crowing at a
great distance keeps her awake.

(e) Sleepy but cannot sleep (Bell., Chamo., Stram.)

(f) Picking of bed clothes during sleep.

(g) Loss of breath on falling asleep (Ammon C., Digi., Lac Can., Lach.)
4) Complaints from fright while fear still persists.

5) Delirium: Patient constantly talks during delirium. Eyes glossy and wide open or
half closed. Face red & puffed. He thinks he is not at home.

6) Delirium Tremens in old emaciated persons, bloated face, stupor, eyes burning hot,
dry with loud snoring.

7) Bed feels so hot she cannot lie on it and she moves often in search of a cold place.

8) Sweat: as a concomitant is a characteristic of opium. Complaints appearing with
perspiration. Hot perspiration over whole body except lower limbs.

9) Stool: Involuntary black and offensive from paralysis of sphincter especially after
fright.
10) Urine : retained or involuntary after fright (suppression of urine, bladder empty—
stram).

11) Inactivity of digestive organs resulting in reversed peris-taltic motion. Faecal
vomiting.

12) Ailments from bad effects of fright, fear still remaining, from charcoal vapours.
from inhaling gas, alcohol, approach of stranger, from nursing after fright of
mother, from crying, lead poisoning, excessive use of tobacco, suppression of or
sudden retrocession of acute exanthema, from excessive joy, anger, shame,
emotion, sun etc.

13) Mentals : Opium is a great remedy for distinct and characteristic mental symptoms
which are as follows :

The patient complains of nothing, wants nothing. She tells you she is not sick,
though she has passed no stool or urine or she has a temperature of 105-106°. There
is confusion of mind, delirium with great stupor. In delerium patient is con-stantly
talking, especially when aroused. Her face looks besotted, red puffed, eyes glassy
and half closed with loud snoring. The patient thinks she is not at home. (Bry.)
which is continually in her mind. During sleep picking of bed clothes is marked.
