174 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

6. Stool with scraping of intestine (Colchicum and Arg. nit.).
7. Gastric complaints that are aggravated by drinking coffee (Boericke).
8. Disgust for everything, drink, food, tobacco.
9. Drinking even a small quantity of water increases pain in the bladder.
10. Violent lancinating pains through, the kidney and back (Kent).
11. Tenacious and ropy mucus from air passages (Kali bi.) with urinary symptoms.

12. Aggravation from dazzling objects and by water, a typcial picture of hydrophobia
(Nash).

13, Cantharides expels moles, dead foetus, placenta and promotes fecundity
(Guernsey).

14. There is violent sexual desire.

PARTICULARS

Dysentery :
Cantharides is a good medicine for dysentery.
Before stool There is great urging for stool with violent colicky pain in the abdomen.
During stool. There is severe burning and cutting pain in the anus.
After stool: After stool colic is alleviated, but the tenesmus continues with great shuddering.

Character of Stool: White mucus like scraping of intestine, bloody mucus with streaks of
blood or frank blood.

Concomitants: Dysentery is associated with dysuria.

Urinary Symptoms :

in whatever diseases or urinary complaints, such as urethritis, cystitis or renal colic, gonorrhoea, etc..
it matters little, if the following symptoms are present, Cantharides can be thought of'’as an effective
remedy.

Constant urging to urinate before, during and after micturition.

Only a few drops of urine pass at a time,

There is VIOLENT TENESMUS.

Burning during urination is always present.

Oversenstiveness of parts is well marked.

Haematuria :

Blood passes with urine. Aggravation after drinking coffee or cold water,

Character of pain; There \s violent pain WITH FREQUENT URGING TO URINATE. Cutting,
lancinating and stabbing pain as from knives, in neck of bladder. Pain shoots off in different directions:

There is burning and cutting pain in urethra during micturition with VIOLENT TENESMUS: —
Violent lancinating pains through the kidneys and back. Over sensitiveness of the parts. There is sever?
pain on urinating so that the patient screams on passing every drop.
