510 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

7. Pus-like or sweetish, terribly foetid taste in the mouth.

8. Marked tachycardia is a very striking feature. PULSE abnormally out of proportion
to temperature.

9. Distinct consciousness of the heart with cardiac asthenia from septic conditions.
—_—_--—

10. Ailments from : Septic condition, sapraemia or septicaemia, puerperal or surgical;

from ptomaine poisoning or sewer gas infection, dissecting wounds, chronic malaria
and after effects of miscarriage.

PARTICULARS

Septic fever :

Pyrogen is a great remedy for ALL TYPES OF SEPTIC FEVER, e.g. typhoid, puerperal fever,

ptomaine poisoning or sewer gas infection, wherever the symptoms peculiar to this drug are present,
which are as follows:-

Causation; It is caused by any septic condition such as septicaemia or sapraemia, puerperal or
surgical, from ptomaine poisoning or sewer gas infection.

Temperature: Sudden heat with rise of temperature upto 103-106°F. Skin is very dry and burning,
may be pale or cold. Heat is followed by cold and clammy sweat. The BED FEELS VERY HARD; parts

rested upon feels sore and burised; rapid decubitus. The patient is very much restless. He must
move constantly to get relief from the soreness of parts.

Chill: Chill begins in the back, between the scapulae. Chill is very severe. Feels generally cold,
but particularly of extremities and bones.

Sweat: Very offensive sweat; sometimes clammy.

Pulse: Pulse abnormaly rapid, 140-170 per minute, out of all proportion to temperature.
Tachycardia.

Tongue: Tongue is very characteristic. Periodically the tongue is CLEAN AND SMOOTH, AS IF
VARNISHED AND FIERY RED, large and flabby, dry and cracked, articulation is difficult.

Taste: There is PUS-LIKE taste in the mouth as from an abscess. Occasionally sweetish taste and
terribly foetid smell from mouth may also appear.

Discharge: All the discharges are very offensive, such as diarrhoea, vomitus, breath, urine.
menstrual blood or lochia.

In septic fever, especially puerperal, Pyrogen has demonstrated its worth as a great Homoeopathic
dynamic antiseptic. During the course of diphtheria or typhoid when the best selected remedy fails
to relieve of permanently improve.

Vomiting :

Vomiting is persistent in Pyrogen. The character of vomitus Is brownish or COFFEE-GROUND and
very offensive. In the case of impacted or obstructed bowels, there may be vomiting of stool, stercoracious
vomiting. This sort of vomiting may accompany septic fevers,

Diarrhoea :

Diarrhoea is HORRIBLY OFFENSIVE (Psor.). Stool is brown or black; painless and involuntary. Stoo!
Passes unconsciously along with flatus; uncertain stool.
