618 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Sensation: Sensation as if the head was forced and as if pierced by a nail through the parietal bone
(ign., Coffea).

Character: There is violent congestion with heaviness in occiput. Headache in the moming. There
is boring pain through the temples. Screwing in the frontal eminence or temples as if a convex button
was pressed upon the part.

Mo.%alities: Headache is worse from sexual excess, overeating, tea, coffee, exposure to heat and sun.
Relieved by exercise, in the open air, looking up and turning the head upwards.

Cone = Hants: The patient is peevish and taciturn with numbness of brain. Scalp is very sensitive to
hen closing the eyes, ceases on opening them.

-~*

In KERAT; TS, SYPHILITIC IRITIS AND OPHTHALMIA NEONATORUM this remedy is infallible.
In ophthalmia neonatorum, if the mother is suffering from gonorrhoea the child gets the infection during

the process of parturition while passing through the vaginal canal and uro-genital tract.
There is Jarge granulations like warts or blisters.

There is burning, tearing pain, in open air. Eyelids are agglutinated at night; dry, scaly styes and tarsal
tumours, chalazae, thick hard knots, like small condylomata after Staphisagria partially relieves but
doesmot-cure. Ciliary neuralgia, affecting the face and head.

* Aggravation by uncovering. If uncovered, feels as if a cold stream of air were blowing out
through the uncovered parts.
* Amelioration by warmth and convering.

Ears:

In the ear, there are growths like polypi and condylomata. Chronic otitis exuding profuse, purulent,
acrid, offensive discharges. Cramp like pain in the external ear.

Teeth :

There is toothache from tea drinking. Teeth decay at root, crown remains sound (Mezereum, Crown
decay and root intact, Merc. sol. Edges decay, Staphisagria. Teeth decay as soon as they beginio appear.
Kreosote). Teeth crumble and turn yellow.

“On blowing the nose, a pressing pain is felt in the hollow of the tooth or at the side of it"—
BOENNINGHAUSEN.

Nose:

Chronic catarrh; mucus is thick and green, mixed sometimes with blood and pus. On blowing the
nose, there is pain in teeth. Dry nasal cavity with ulcerated nostril which Is very painful, especially when
pressing the root of nose. Ozaena with thick greenish discharge is also noticed. Chronic catarrh after
exanthemata.

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Throat : There is large tenacious mucus which the patient hawks up with difficulty. Throat is dry
and rough. Swallowing of saliva is very painful.

Abdomen : There is complete loss of appetite. Food is tasteless. Bitter, rancid eructation and tasting
of ingesta. Painful pressure in the pit of stomach. Cramps every evening with induration in the stomach.
