NATRUM PHOSPHORICUM

"Synonym ; Common Names:
Sodium phosphate Phosphate of soda

This salt is found in the
blood, muscles, nerve
and brain-cells, as well as in
the intercellular fluids.
Through the presence of this
salt, lactic acid is decomposed
into carbonic acid and water.
It absorbs the carbonic acid,
taking up two molecules for
every molecule of itself, and
carries it to the lungs, where
the oxygen of the air sets the
carbonic acid free in exchange for oxygen, which latter is taken up by the iron contained in
the blood corpuscles. Any deficiency in this prevents this chemical change, and the lactic
acid remains as such. An acid state of the system now prevails; rheumatism, dyspepsia,
intestinal troubles, etc., ensue. According to Schussler, by the administration of molecular
doses of this drug, this catalytic action is at once restored - the acid state ceases, and the
rheumatic and other symptoms subside.

Uric acid is kept soluble in the blood by the presence of the phosphate of soda and
the natural temperature of the blood. Whenever there is a deficiency of this salt, uric acid
is combined with the soda, forming the urate of soda, an insoluble salt and deposited
near the points producing gout and acute inflammatory rheumatism.

Natrum phosph. serves to emulsify fatty acids; it is therefore a remedy for all
dyspeptic conditions traceable to fats, or such as are aggravated by their use.

Natrum phos, is the remedy for conditions arising from excess of lactic acid. It
prevents inspissation of the bile and mucus with crystallization of cholesterin in the gall
duct and will thus remove the cause of many cases of jaundice, hepatic colic,
bilious headache and imperfect assimilation of fats from lack of bile.

It is useful gout, as well as in acute and chronic articular rheumatism, being thus a
remedy for the so-called acid diathesis.

CHARACTERISTIC INDICATIONS

1. Dr. Schuessler found that Nat Phos is indicated for excess of acid in the body as it
assists in the breaking down of lactic acid, It helps restore proper pH balance in the
body and neutralize acidic activity.

This is a remedy for excess of acid in the system characterized generally by
“sourness,” an excess of lactic acid. It relieves sour eructations or belching, or sour

——— — _ _

687

