vr

Thuja Occidentalis 619

There is sinking senstation in the epigastrium before food. There is chronic dyspensia in habitual tea
drinkers.

Sensation as if an animal was crying in the abdomen, or something alive was moving within the
stomach, or something protrudes here and there like the limbs of a foetus. There may be flatulence and
distension, with rumbling and colic.

Left ovarian region is very Sensitive. Left ovary is inflamed; worse at each menstrual period.
There is burning sensation while walking or riding; must lie down.

Diarrhoea :

* Causation : Vaccination, onion, tea and coffee, bread, butter and fatty food, damp air and
breakfast.

¢ Symptoms before stool; Rumbling of flatulence in abdomen.

° Symptoms during stool: There is great accumulation of gas causing distension of abdomen,
Stool is forcibly discharged as if water is passing through a bunghole, with rumbling and colicky pain in

abdomen.
* Character of stool: Profuse, pale, yellow, watery, oily or greasy, bloody stool.
¢ Symptoms after stool: There is great debility.
* Modality: Aggravated in the morning, after breakfast, after vaccination, from onion and tea.

© Concomitants: Anus fissured, painful to touch, surrounded by flat warts or moist mucous
condylomata.

Thuja may also be thought of in cases of chronic diarrhoea in persons having hydrogenoid
constitution with a history of maltreated or suppressed gonorrhoea, with desire for cold food and

drink.

Constipation

In case of chronic constipation, WHEN STOOL PARTLY GOES BACK AFTER BEING PARTLY
EXPELLED (Sil.) Passage of stool produces violent rectal pain which ultimately compels the patient to
cease the effort. Anus is fissured and painful to touch, surrounded by flat warts or moist mucous
condylomata. Along with constipation, piles may also appear, which is swollen and painful, Pain is more
severe while sitting.

Urine :
¢ Causation; Chronic incontinence of urine from paralysis of sphincter vesicae, with gonorrhoea!
urethritis.
© Location: Orifice of urethra is agglutinated with mucus.
* Sensation: Burning sensation in urethra, especially in the morning and during day.
Concomitants: Yellowish discharge from urethra with chordae.

Skin :

The skin looks very unhealthy. Warts on any part of the body, with a little stalk called fig-warts,
tubular warts, flat warts, black senile warts, even condylomata may be seen. Dirty brownish colour of
the skin, brownish-white, mottled spots on the skin.

There may also be white, scaly, dry eruptions on the skin,
