ipecacuanha

Diarrhoea :
* Causation: Undigestible food, raisins, cakes, anger and suppressed eruptions.

* Character of stool: “Green mucus, as green as grass, but black stool looking like frothy
molasses also indicates this remedy occasionally.

¢ Concomitants: Colicky pain around umbilicus with nausea, clean tongue and no thirst. Asiatic
cholera where nausea and vomiting predominate, with clean tongue and no thirst. The patient becqmes
drowsy and sleepy after vomiting (Aeth), aggravation from slightest-motion.

Colic :
* Causation: Flatulent colic, gall-stone colic.

¢ Location: Colic around the region of navel, cutting pain across abdomen as from a knife,
goes from left to right.

* Sensation: Cutting pains, gripping pains as though intestine were tightly grasped with hands.
* Concomitants: Nausea, vomiting, clean tongue and no thirst.

Respiratory system :

Pneumonia : Most of the symptoms are indicated in early stage ot the disease with all general
characteristic symptoms of pneumonia. Pneumonia of infants. In infantile pneumonia chest loaded with
mucus, rapid wheezing respiration, blueness of skin and pale face. Although the chest seems full of
phlegm, and there is so much of fine rattling, the phlegm does not seem to yield to cough. Cough causes
nausea and vomiting. There may be wheezing with threatened suffocation.

Asthma : Spasmodic form of attack, with violent contraction and constriction in throat and chest.
Threatened suffocation from constriction. Wheezing is present, nothing is expectorated.

* Modality: Aggravation by motion.
* Concomitants: With nausea vomiting, clean tongue and no thirst.
Cough. Cough is dry, spasmodic, constricted and asthmatic. Incessant and violent with every breath.

Whooping cough : Child loses breath, turns pale or blue in face, stiff; strangling with gagging
and vomiting of mucus, bleeding from nose and mouth. Every fresh attack sets in with a long-drawn
difficult, howling and sighing inspiration.

Haemorrhage : Ipecac is a GREAT HAEMORRHAGIC REMEDY. Bleeding from all orifices of the
body, from uterus, bowels, kidney, stomach, nose, lungs, etc. Character of the blood is profuse and steady
flow of BRIGHT RED BLOOD,

Concomitants: Nausea, oppressed breathing, thirstlssness and clean tongue.

Bones :
* Bones of skull feel bruised: Pain enters from teeth and root of tongue.

* Pains as if bones were all torn into pieces (Lac can, Tuber). Pains as from a bruise in all
the bones.
Intermittent fever : Ipecac is indicated almost in all cases of malaria if symptoms tally.

* Causation: Malarial fever drugged with quinine and arsenic, Relapses with irregularities and
indiscretion in diet.

© Before chill: Yawning, stretching and waterbrash in mouth.
© Chill: Short chill, chill more In warm room, from external heat.
