190 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

mumps, tonsillitis or any such severe inflam-matory illness in very early life is a
strong indication for Carcinosin.

5) Craving or an aversion or intolerance to one or more of the following—salt, sweet,

milk, egg, meat, fat & fruit. There may be craving now and an aversion at another
time in the same patient.

6) The patient may be better or worse from sea, air—is an important modality of
Carcinosin (Medo., Nat Mur, Sepia, Tuberculinum).

7) Great desire to lie on chest or knee—elbow position even in older children.
8) Tendency to insomnia in children occurring in early life.

9) Tendency to alimentary upsets of one kind or another—say tendency to diarrhoea
or constipation or acidosis in childhood but this is not certain as Dr. Foubister said.

10) Mind—In mental picture of Carcinosin also we find com-bination of mental
symptoms of many medicines like other physical generals. Clerke says, “Carcinosin
is useful in Mental cases with a tendency to suicide and a family history of cancer.
Mental cases with a background of fright, prolonged fear or unhappiness, and also
useful in mental troubles which originate from anticipation. Mentally the patient is
either very intelligent and artisic with great affection for fine arts, music, drawing
etc. or very dull, disinterested, idiotic. Backward or mentally defective children. He
is either fastidious (Ars Alb. Nux V. Anac., Graph.) or possessed with filthy habits
(Sulph.). The patient is of obstinate nature (Tub., Bov.). He gets pleasure in
observing a thunderstrom (Sepia), He is obsessed with a sense of rhythm and is
consequently fond of dancing (Sepia). Showing spontaneous sympathy to others is
one of his main characteristics (Phos.) The child if reprimanded reacts either
mentally or physically or through both (Medo.)

N.B. : Author has found this remedy unsafe even harmful in open cases of cancer but very useful if
constitutional disorders like other remedies? (Boericke recommended in open cases of cancer)
