ALLEN'’S KEY NOTE — an easy explanation 729

Sclerosis (Plumb) Term used in pathology to describe abnormal hardening or fibrosis of a
tissue.

Scorbutic (Kreos.) Affecting with scurvy (Due to deficiency of Vit. C),

Scorbutic Cachexia (Staph) A general wasting, occurring when suffering from scurvy.

Scrambled eggs (Sonic.) Eggs cooked by beating and then heating in a saucepan with butter
and milk.

Scrawny (Arg. N., Sec. c.) Thin.

Scrofulous (Baryt. C., Brom., Calc. P., Con. M., Diph., lod, Nil. Ac., Phos. A. Samb, Sii,
Sulph.) Same as strumous constitution.

Scrofulous exostosis (Ruta) A bony tumour springing from the surface of a bone of a
scrofulous diathetic person.

Scrofulous ophthalmia (Bar. c.) Purulent conjunctivitis of scrofulous diathetic children.

Scurf (Psor.) Dandruff; branny desquamation.

Scum (Mag. c.) Layer of dirt on a pond or other area of still water.

Sea-sickness (Carb-Ac, Cocc, Petr., Tab.) A disorder of equilibrium occurring on boarda ship
and due to the stimulation of the semicircular canals by the unaccustomed movements of
the body in space; there are giddiness, malaise, nausea and vomiting; a form of motion
sickness.

Second Childhood (Bar. C., Op.) Old age.

Secundines (Pyr.) The after birth, the membranes and placenta, the expulsion of which,
following the birth of the child constitutes the third stage of labor.

Sedentary life (Aloe, Ammon C., Nux V., Ranunc. B.) A person inclined by nature or driven
by occupation spends most of the parts of his daily life in sitting position.

Seized with desire to urinate (Petros) Sudden inclination to urinate.

Semi stupid (Diph.) Semi stuoprous condition.

Sentient nerves (Hyp.) Nerves capable of carrying sensations.

Sequalae (Variol.) A morbid condition following as a consequence of another disease.
Sewer gas (Pyr.) Foul air of public drain.

Sexual erethism (Murex.) An abnormal state of sexual excitement or irritation.
Shingles (Ran. B.) Herpes zoster.

Shreddy strips (Arg. N.) Form pieces of thread.

Shrinking look (Stram.) Collapsed condition due to fear.

Sibilant (Spong.) Hissing or whistling in character; denoting a form of rale.

Sick headache (Cocc, Sang, Tab, Ver-V.) Migraine; a symptom complex occurring
periodically and characterized by pain in the head, usually unilateral, vertigo, nausea and
vomiting, photophobia.

Slimy stool (Chel, Merc.) Slippery stool.
