Acetic Acid 11

6) Copious pale urine is characteristic particularly if accompanied by intense thirst &
dry hot skin.

7) Sour belching and vomiting of pregnancy, burning water-brash and profuse
salivation, day & night (Lac.Ac.-Saliva-tion agg. at night Merc.S.)

8) Cannot sleep lying on the back, sensation of sinking in abdomen causing dysponoea,
rests better lying on belly (Amm.C.)

9) Hectic fever, skin dry and hot; red spot on left cheek and drenching night sweats.

10) Diarrhoea : Copious, exhausting with great thirst, in dropsy, typhus, phthisis, with
night sweat.

11) Sweat : profuse, colliquative.

12) Mind : The patient is irritable, borrows trouble, worried about business affairs.
Grieves about his sickness and his children.

13) Ailments from : Bad effects of anaesthetic vapors, fumes of charcoal and gas. Bad
effect of stings & bites. Injury, surgical shock, sausage poisoning.

PARTICULARS

Gastrointestinal Symptoms :

Acetic Acid is indicated in various kinds of gastrointestinal diseases; it covers even advanced stage of
peptic ulcer, malignancy of stomach, intestinal tuberculosis etc. The symptoms are : sour belching and
vomiting after every kind of food, burning waterbrash and profuse salivation with fermentation in
stomach. There is violent burning pain in stomach and chest followed by coldness of skin and cold sweat
on forehead. Cold drinks disagree but patient has intense burning thirst.

Diarrhoea:

Chronic diarrhoea of emaciated children. Diarrhoea in dropsy, typhus, phthisis, exhausting, copious,
frequent watery stools worse in the morning. Diarrhoea with great thirst & night sweats.

Urinary Symptoms :

Copious pale urine is the characteristic of Acetic acid in Diabetes Mellitus if associated with intense
burning thirst and dry hot skin and debility.

Dropsy : It is one of the prominent medicines for dropsy associated with diabetes and
gastrointestinal diseases. With dropsical condition, there is profound anaemia with waxy pallor of the
face, Dropsy with great thirst and debility, emaciation, sour belching, waterbrash and diarrhoea. Patient
cannot sleep lying on back but rests better Iving on belly.

Fever : Especially indicated in hectic fever with drenching night sweat & prostration. Skin dry
and hot. There is red spot on left cheek. No thirst in fever is characteristic. There may be profuse
salivation and stomach disorder with fever. Patient feels better by lving on belly.

Relations : It antidotes anaesthetic vapors. (Amyl.); fumes of charcoal and gas; Opium and
Stramoniurm.

Cider Vinegar antidotes Carbolic acid.
Follows well : after cinchona, in haemorrhage; after Digitalis, in dropsy.
