v

phytolacca Decandra 483

Miasm: Syphilitic and sycotic.
Diathesis: Rheumatic and gouty diathesis,

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Pains flying like electric shocks, rapidly shifting, shooting, lancinating, worse from
motion and at night.

. Right sided affections e.g., shoulders, throat, etc.
Chilly patient, worse from cold, damp, rainy weather, relieved by warm application.
All the symptoms are worse at night.

There is intense backache and headache, and a sore aching, bruised feeling all over
accompanied by restlessness and prostration.

Irresistible desire to bite the teeth or gums together during dentition (Podo.).
Burning in throat as from coal of fire or red hot iron. Cannot drink hot liquid.
. Uvula is enlarged, dropsical, oedematous, almost translucent (Kali bich., Rhus tox.).

. Breast sensitive, sore, and fissured. Pain radiates from nipple to all over the body,
(Pain goes from nipple to back—Croton tig. Pain goes from nipple to uterus,
Pulsatilla and Silicea).

10. Breast shows an early tendency to cake; HARD AND PAINFUL.

11. Ulcers are angry looking, red, congested, gaping ulcers with ichorous, unhealthy
and foetid discharge.

12. Aggravation from hot fluid and hot application.
13. Ailments from : Abuse of mercury and sypilitic affections.

oP ©

oO AH

PARTICULARS

Glandular symptoms :

Phytolacca is pre-eminently a glandular remedy, There is glandular swelling with heat and
inflammation, especially of the neck, particularly the submaxillary and parotid glands which are very much
HARDENED LIKE STONE. The mammary glands are also ENLARGED WITH SORE FEELING. It has
got ability fo delay the formation of malignant growth especially in the breast:

Breast :

The main centre of action is mammary glands. Almost any and every excitement is concentrated on
the mammary gland. NO OTHER DRUG IN OUR MATERIA MEDICA HAS SO MUCH
CONCENTRATION ON MAMMARY GLAND AS PHYTOLACCA.

There is mastitis with enlaged auxiliary glands. The look of the mammae is of a purple hue. The
mammae are full of HARD AND PAINFUL NODOSITIES. Cancer of breast, which shows an early
tendency to cake. IT IS FULL STONY HARD AND VERY MUCH PAINFUL. Irritable breast before and
during menses.

There is a tumefaction of the breast which neither heals nor suppurates.
