42 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

a

Constipation :

* Causation; Due to dryness of mucous membrane and paretic condition of the intestine, there is
inactivity of the rectum.

* During stool: There is great straining; patient has to strain a lot to pass stool, even soft stoo| |

requires great straining. There is no desire to pass stool unless there is large accumulation. Patient must
grasp the seat of closet tightly.

© Character of stool: Stool is dry, hard, knotty, covered with mucus. Soft stool adheres to the
parts (Platina).

e After stool: Rectum feels sore, inflamed and bleeding.

e Concomitants: The patient has to strain at stool in order to urinte. There is also constipation of
nursing children from artificial food, bottle-fed babies (Podo.).

Menses :
¢ Time: Too early.
¢ Quantity: Scanty.
° Character of blood: Pale.

¢ During menses: The sufferings are terrible and the patient is miserable at the menstrual period,
although the flow is scanty it is prostrating.

e After menses: The patient is exhausted mentally and physically, scarcely able to speak.
it makes the woman nearly tired and takes until next period tecget straightened.
Leucorrhoea :

© Time: During the day (rev. Syphilinum).

* Quantity: Profuse and copious; running down to heels.

* Character: Acrid, yellow, and excoriating. The discharge of leucorrhoea is thick, yellowish, bul
it may be albuminous and stringy, looking like white of an egg. Leucorrhoea is corroding, profuse and
running down to the heels; more noticeable in daytime because these complaints are generally worse»
when walking or standing.

* Modalities: Worse during daytime and better by cold bathing.

Nervous symptoms :

Alumina causes paretic condition of muscles. Paralysis of one side of the body or paralysis of the
muscles of ithe lower extremities. The paralytic state begins as semi-paralysis; for a long time merely jus!
as inactivity, which grows at length into a complete paralytic condition.

The paralytic state runs through the remedy and is observed in various parts in many ways.

Pains in the sole of foot on stepping; numbness of the heels when walking. Feeble circulation, feeble
conductivity and feeble nerve action; everything is slowed down.

One sided paralysis, especially of extensors; pain in arms and fingers, arms.feel paralysed.
Trembling here and there in the body; slow, tottering gait, staggers on walking.

There is inability to walk except with eyes open and in the daytime; tottering and falling when
are closed (Arg. nitricum, Gels.)
