320 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Temperament: Sanguine, irritable, nervous and hysterical temperament.
Relation with heat and cold: Chilly patient (Clarke).
Miasm: Psora is in the background.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. “Increased cerebral activity”, but of a non-inflammatory type can be noticeg
throughout this drug. Hyoscyamus has many points in common with Belladonna
and Stramonium. Each one has got an individuality of its own. Hyoscyamus doeg
not produce the intense cerebral congestion and inflammation of Belladonna, nor
the intense maniacal delirium and sensorial excitement of Stramonium. In delirium
too, Hyoscyamus occupies a place midway between Belladonna and Stramonium, [t
lacks.the constant cerebral congestion of the former and the fierce rage and
maniacal delirium of the latter.

2. One peculiar symptom pre-eminently found in Hyoscyamus is “DESIRE TO
UNCOVER”. The patient throws off the bed-clothes not because they are too warm,
but because he will not remain covered. Wants to expose his body fully.

3. Another striking feature of Hyoscyamus is that the patient HAS NO WANTS AND
MAKES NO COMPLAINTS. The patient ceases to complain of his symptoms; he is
hot, does not desire to drink; does not know whether to take this or that, does not
recognise those around him, he abuses them, makes irrelevant answers, wishes to
run away, cries aloud or whines, but without being able to say why he is doing so.

4. Hyoscyamus is famous for its delirium. In delirium it has its own peculiar features.
The non-inflammatory type of increased cerebral activity, ridiculous gestures and
display of a comical alienation of mind, and the horrible lascivious mania and the
desire to remain uncovered are symptoms peculiar to Hyoscyamus alone.

5. The choreic symptoms of Hyoscyamus are well defined. Every muscle of the body
twitches, from the eyes to the toes. There is a constant state of erethysm. Not a single
part of the whole body, or a solitary muscle is in a quiet state for a moment.
Convulsive motions, spasm, both tonic and clonic, without consciousness, but with !
restlessness are all characteristic of this drug.

6. Fear, suspicion and jealousy prevail always in a Hyoscyamus patient. (Lach..
Puls., Rhus tox. Nux vom., Stram.). Fear of being alone; of being poisoned, of being
bitten, being sold. Suspects to eat or drink or to take what is offered; suspicious of
some plot, of every body.

7. Intense sleeplessness of irritable, excitable persons, from embarrassment, often
imaginary.

8. Mind : Hyoscyamus is a great remedy for distinct and characteristic mental
symptprns which are as follows:

Diseases with increased mental activity, but of a noninflammatory type: Such as
hysteria, delirium tremens or delirium.

The patient is very restless. Would not stay in bed. He jumps out of bed and tries to
escape. Makes irrelevant answers and thinks that he is in the wrong place; behaves
