veratrum Viride 641

qua:

2. Sudden onset of all the troubles as in Aconite and Belladonna, is a great
indicator of Veratrum viride.

3. Congestion is yet another leading keynote of Veraturm viride, especially congestion
in the base of brain, spine, lung and stomach.

4. Sensation of fulness in the head causing a heavy headache.

5. Pulse Suddenly increases and gradually decreases below normal; slow, soft, weak,
irregular and intermittent pulse (Digitalis); low tension.

6. Beating of pulse throughout the body, especially in the right thigh.

7. Everything tastes sweet.

8. Ailments from : Going into sun’s rays, going from hot to-cold, after suppression of
menses and lochia.

PARTICULARS

Meningitis :
Causation: Meningitis may be caused by exposure to heat.
Onset: Sudden and violent.

Character: Basiter meningitis; convulsion, dim vision, RETRACTED, PUPILS DILATED, tetanic
convulsion, cold and clammy perspiration. Pain in the nape of neck, cannot hold the head up;
opisthotonos.

* Aggravation: By motion, raising the head, exposure to heat and cold and sitting erect.
¢ Amelioration: By remaining quiet, lying down and rubbing.

Apoplexy :
Congestive apoplexy, head hot; blood-shot eyes, thick speech, pulse full and hard as iron. Bloated
livid face. Hippocratic face, with red streak down the middle of the tongue.

Sunstroke :

Face is flushed; head full; throbbing of arteries, bearing of pulse throughout the body; vertigo
with nausea, Convulsive twitching of the faeial muscles. Sensitive to sound; double vision or partial vision
(Glon., Gels).

Headache :

Causation: Exposure to sun's rays, heat and extreme cold, suppression of menses and lochia.
Onset: Sudden and violent Onset.
Character: Violent nerypus sick headache: Congestion from suppressed menses. Intense, almost
apopletic headache; throbbini of arteries; head hot and face flushed.
Modalities:
* Aggravation: By motion, raising the head, warmth,
* Amelioration: By remaining quiet, lying down and tight bandaging.
Concomitants: Nausea and vomiting, with blood-shot eyes.
