716 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Fistula dentalis (Fi. A.) A fistula leading down to the cavhy of an ‘ alveolar abscess (abscess
in a tooth socket).

Fistula lachrymalis (F!. A., Sil.) A fistula opening into a tear duct or the lachrimal sac,
Fissures (Nit. A., Sulph.) A furrow, cleft or slit.

Fissures of anus((Rat.) A crack or slit in the mucous membrane of the anus.

Flakes (Ver. A.) A small loose mass.

Flaxen hair (Brom.) Yellowish brown colour of hair,

Flickering (Cycl) Light burning or shining unsteadily.

Florid (Glon, Lobel.) Bright red colour.

Fluttering (Lit. T) Vibrating rapidly and irregularly.

Follicular pharyngitis (Aesc. H.) A form of pharyngitis in which the lymphoid follicles are
enlarged, studding the mucous membrane as minute nodules or granules.

Fontanelles (Calc. 0., Calc. p.) : A membranous space between the cranial bones. The
diamond-shaped anterior f. (bregma) is at the junction of the frontal and two parietal
bones. It ossifies during the second year of life. The triangular posterior f. (lambda) is at
the junction of the occipital and two parietal bones-it ossifies within a few weeks of birth.

Fossa navicularis (Petros.) The terminal dilated portion of the urethra in the glans penis.

Fraenum (Merc. S.) A fold of membrane which checks or limits the movement of an organ

e.g. Fraenum linguae-from the under surface of the tongue to the floor of the mouth. Here
fraenum of prepuce.

Freckles (Lach, Muriatic. A.) Yellowish or brownish macules developing on the exposed part
of the skin.

Frenzy (Mag. P.) Agitated State of extreme excitement.

Fretful (Ant. c, Psor, Tub.):; Peevish; Irritable.

Frog Spawn (Hell-N.) Eggs of frog.

Frothy molasses (Ipecac) Bubbles due to fermentation of molasses (GUR).

Frowsy (Borax) Unclean in appearance.

Furuncle (Abrot, Merc. S.) A localised pyogenic infection originating in a hair follicle.

co

Gagging (Ipecac, Kali Bi, Lye., Podo,) Retching.

Gangrenous diphtheria (Merc. C.) Destructive diphtheria.
Gastralgia (Bism, Petr.) Stomach-ache.

Gastric headache (Tarax) Headache originated from gastric trouble,

