102 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Modalities: Headache is worse from every mental exertion and better in open air.
Concomitant: Falling of hair, especially in syphilitic and mercurial affections.

Eye:
Sees only the lower half (See only left half Lycopodiurm).

Heart :
Causation: Heart diseases are caused by syphilitic and mercurial affection with scrofulous base.

Sensation: As if the heart stood still; as though it ceased to beat; actually it stops for 2 or 3 seconds
and then gives a sudden hard thump.

Character of heart disease: There is violent palpitation and anxiety with congestion of blood to
head and chest after exertion. Pain in heart! region extends down the left arm to fingers.

Pulse is small, feeble but rapid and irregular; visible beating of carotid and temporal arteries.
There may also be fatty degeneration and hypertrophy of the heart (Phos., Kali carb.).

Bones :

Causation: Syphilitic and mercurial affections of bone. Caries of mastoid, palate and nasal bones with
terrible pain. Otitis, otorrhoea, ozaena; excessive discharge with putrid and offensive smell.

Modality: Pain is worse at night, driving the patient to despair.

Testes :

Undescended and undeveloped testes; like mere pendent shreds; in pining boys, who are low spirited
and lifeless with weak memory and who are lacking in “boyish-go”.
Uterine Symptoms :

Prolapse of uterus from over reaching or straining. The uterus is indurated and hypertrophied.
Prolapse of uterus is not due to weakness of pelvic floor or uterine ligament, but because the uterus is

heavy, hypertrophied and indurated.

There are menstrual and uterine affections with great melancholy which are aggravated during
menstrual period.

There is fou! breath in girls at puberty.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: From sunset to sunrise; in cold air; when getting cold; while lying down; mental
exertion, many complaints come on only during winter.

Relations :

Aurum follows and is followed well be Syphilinum. Similar to Asaf., Calcarea, Platina, Sepia in bone
and uterine disease.

Antidoted by; Coffee, Spigelia, Mercurlus.

Antidotes to: Mercurius, Spigelia, Kali-iod.
