306 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

i.
2.

ae

aon nm om

11.
. Mind : Helleborus manifests very striking mental symptoms in many cases, such

13.

Weak and delicate patients, who are prone to brain troubles with serous effusion.

Melancholic, woeful and full of anguish; especially girls at puberty or when menses
fail to return after appearing.

. The patient is irritable and easily angered; does not want to be disturbed.
. Consolation aggravates most of the complaints (Ign., Nat. mur., Lilium tig., sepia,

Silicea).

. Brain symptoms during dentition with threatened effusion.

. Meningitis with exudation, brain-cry, and paralysis.

. Convulsion with extreme coldness of body.

. Diarrhoea during hydrocephalus or dentition or pregnancy. Stool contains jelly-like

mucus like frog-spawn; involuntary stool.

. Coffee-ground urine, red, black and scanty, suppressed and albuminous.
10.

Dropsy of brain, chest and abdomen after intermittent fever, with debility and
suppressed urine.

Aggravation from 4-8 p.m. (Lyco.).

as in brain troubles with effusion, during dentition, meningitis, encephalitis,
hydrocephalus, typhoid, etc. which are as follows:

The patient is very much irritable and easily angered. Does not want to be
disturbed. Very much melancholic, woeful, despairing; silent or extremely
anguished, especially girls at puberty or when menses fail to return after appearing.
Consolation aggravates most of the complaints.

Brain Stmptoms during dentition (Belladonna, Podophyllum) with threatened
effusion.

Unconscious and stupid when questioned answers slowly, giving a picture of acute
Aliments from : Dentition period, pregnancy or from suppressed exanthema.

PARTICULARS

Head:

In diseases of the brain and meninges, such as MENINGITIS, ENCEPHALITIS, HYDROCEPHALUS,

it matters little, Helleborous can be thought of if the following symptoms are present:-

The patient remains unconscious, lies In a stupid manner, When questioned, he answers slowly.

There is a picture of acute idiocy in him.

There is acute cerebro-spinal or tubercular exudation, as a result of which occur cerebral or complete

paralysis with cri-encephalique.

The look is vacant, thoughtless and staring; eyes are wide open. They are insensible to light; pupils

are dilated or alternately contracted and dilated.
