Pa
Natrum Carbonicum 435

Concomitants: With headache, there is profound debility and exhaustion from least exertion either
mental or physical.
Abdomen :

There is great flatulence and accumulation of gas in the abdomen. There is ravenous hunger with
sensation of emptiness in the stomach.

There is strong aversion to milk, which if taken causes diarrhoea and indigestion with sudden call to
stool. Stool escapes with force and noise. Stool watery, yellow and a pulp-like substance of orange colour
appears in the discharge.

Respiratory Symptoms :

There is marked catarrh with much mucus in throat and posterior nares, constant hawking to clear
the throat. Constant coryza with obstruction of nose. Catarrh extends to posterior nares and throat,
hawking up too much thick mucus from throat.

Character of discharge: There is thick, yellow, green, offensive discharge from nose, often
ceasing after meal. Profuse discharge during : the day, stops at night.

Cough : There is dry cough with coldness inside of the breast. Cough becomes more when coming
into a warm room from out of doors (Bry).
Female genital organs :

Menses : Natrum carb. is a good medicine for menstrual troubles. and the symptoms are as follows:-

Time: Late.

Duration: Usually short.

Quantity: Scanty.

Character of blood: Like washings of meat

Concomitants: Menses with bearing down pain as if every thing would push out.

Modalities: Aggravation by sitting, and amelioration by moving about.

Sexual Symptoms : This remedy is very good FORSTERILITY i.e., a constitutional state in a
woman, whereby she is unable to conceive. Relaxation of the sphincter vaginae, allowing the seminal fluid
to come out as soon as ejaculated by the male and in this way causes sterility. This state may be due-to
spasm of the sphincter vaginae.

There is discharge of mucus frorn the vagina after an. embrace.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: From music, IN THE SUN, excessive summer heat, MENTAL EXERTION and
thunderstorm.

Amelioration: By moving about.
Relations :

Composite: Natrum carb. with Natrum Sulph. for yeast-like vomiting; Calc., Sepia.
Follows well: After Sepia in bearing down.
