Aethusa Cynapium 27

3. Regurgitation of food an hour or so after eating. Greenish copious vomiting followed by
weakness and prostration with sleepiness.

4, Complete absence of thirst is very striking in Aethusa.

5. Physically great weakness; the child can neither stand nor hold up the head.
Prostration with sleepiness is well marked.

6. An expression of great anxiety and pain; sunkenness in the face with well marked
LINEA NASALIS. This well marked linea nasalis symptom is more characteristic of
AEthusa than of any other remedy.

7. Mentally the patient is idiotic ; incapacious to think and is very much confused.

8. Epileptic spasms with clenched thumbs, red face, fixed and dilated pupils, mouth filled
with foam; locked jaws with small, hard and quick pulse. And most peculiar symptom
is, EYES ARE TURNED DOWNWARDS instead of upwards or sidewise.

9. Herpetic eruptions on the end of the nose.

10. Mind : Patient imagines that he sees rat or mouse running across the room. Idiocy with
incapacity of thinking anything and confused. The features expressive of much pain
and anxiety, are found on face with a drawn condition and well marked linea nasalis.
AEthusa is a wonderful medicine for ‘EXAMINATION FUNK (Arg. nit., Gels).

11. Aliments from : During period of dentition, hot summer weather, milk or milk in any
form, errors of diet and bad hygienic surroundings.

PARTICULARS

A€Ethusa Baby :

One can take the help of AEthusa cynapium as one of the best remedies for vomiting in babies,
cholera infantum and epilepsy of children. The troubles occur normally during dentition in hot summer
weather, in children who CANNOT TOLERATE MILK IN ANY FORM. The baby is very weak, cannot
stand up or hold the head up; weakness and prostration with sleepiness persist throughout. The child is
confused, idiotic, and has incapacity to think. The features are expressive of much pain and anxiety, with
a drawn condition and well marked linea nasalis and herpetic eruption on the end of the nose.

Vomiting :

Causation: Period of dentition, hot summer weather, milk or milk in any form.

Baby CANNOT TOLERATE MILK OR MILK IN ANY FORM. It is vomited out in large quantities like
very sour curd in one great effort as soon as it is swallowed, after which the baby becomes greatly relaxed and
drowsy. During dentition, in hot summer weather and due to indigestion, the baby vomits violently and
suddenly of a frothy milky white substance or yellow fluid followed by curdled milk and cheesy matter.

Calcarea os:

Also has got the symptom of sour vomiting of large curds but the symptoms differentiating it from
AEthusa are:

(1) Leucophlegmatic temperament of Calcarea.
(2) Sour stool, sour vomiting and sour sweat.
(3) Sweaty head with open fontanelles.
Regurgitation of food an hour or so after eating is also a recorded symptom of AEthusa.
