516 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

3. Pains are stitching, sharp, shooting, neuralgic and myalgic or rheumatism in the
chest wall.

Pains are aggravated by TOUCH. MOTION OR TURNING THE BODY, during
inspiration (Bry.), wet weather and stormy weather.

4. Pleurisy or pneumonia from sudden exposure to cold while overheated or vice
versa.

5. Great sensitiveness to cold air and change of weather, especially to wet stormy
weather.

6. Another keynote is SENSITIVENESS TO TOUCH, SORE BRUISED SENSATION;
SORENESS OF THE PARTS AFFECTED, ESPECIALLY CHEST.

7. Corns on soles of feet (Antim. crud., Hypencum) which are very sensitive and
painful to touch.

8. Mind : It has great depression of spirits, and desires to die. The patient is very

irritable and quarrelsome. He has great fear of ghosts and suffers from confusion of
mind.

9. Ailments from : Bad effects of alcoholism, exposure to cold while overheated or
vice versa and physical exertion.

PARTICULARS

Throax :

Chest region is the main seat of action of Ranunculus bulbosus; whether it is of inter-costal
muscles in the form of rheumatism or neuralgia or myalgia or in pleura as pleurisy or in lungs as
pneumonia, it matters little, Ranunculus is a great remedy. The cardinal symptoms are as follows:

Chest affections may be caused by exposure to cold when heated or vice versa and physical
exertion, etc.

There is heavy, but short breathing with oppression of chest in the evening; sighing respiration.

Muscular pain about the margin of shoulder blades, especially hi woman of sedentary habits with
burning, from needle work, typewriting or piano-playing.

intercostal rheumatism.

There is intolerable pain in the chest, It may be rheumatic or neuralgic or myalgic. The pain is
stitching, sharp and shooting in character; coming in paroxysm and is excited or brought on by
atmospheric change, or inflammation and depend upon spinal irritation.

Pleurisy or pneumonia, caused by sudden exposure to cold while overheated or vice versa may also
call for this remedy.

Pain in the chest region if aggravated by touch, motion or turning of the body and in wet
stormy weather.

Aggravation: During inspiration and lying on affectd side.
Skin :

Ranunculus bulbosus is a good medicine for the skin affections such as HERPES ZOSTER,
VESICULAR ERUPTIONS, corns, etc.
