ahus Toxicodendron 531
a

Character of cough; Hoarsensess arid scrapping rawness in larynx with roughness and soreness in
chest. Short dry respiration; very much oppressed and anxious. Short dry cough from tickling in trachea.
Cough in morning soon after waking. Spasmodic cough that seems to shatter the head.

e Aggravation: Before a storm, after midnight, bathing, exposure to cold and inspiration and rest.
¢ Amelioration: By wrapping up warm application and dry clear weather.

paralysis :

Causation: From getting feet, wet, on lying on damp ground, after exertion, parturition, sexual
excess, ague or typhoid.

Location : Any and every part of the body is likely to be affected, especially the extremities, eye-
lids, ete.

Character: Paralysis with numbness of affected parts, paresis of limbs, ptosis.

Diarrhoea :

Causation: Damp wet weather and summer bathing.

Character of stool: Watery stool, involuntary, usually with beginning of typhoid.

Concomitants: Great thirst with dry tonque, mouth and throat, with great exhaustion and pain
streaming down the posterior part of lower limbs during stool.
Fever :

Rhus tox. is a medicine which may be indicated in any and every kind of feve-—INTERMITTENT
FEVER, CONTINUOUS FEVER, REMITTENT FEVER and the like.

(a) Intermittent fever. ;
Before chill: Dry teasing cough with taste of blood.
During chill: Cough of the same character. Great thirst with dry,, tongue, mouth and throat.

Heat: Comers of mouth ulcerated. There may also appear fever blisters around the mouth and
chin. The patient is very much restless with mental anxiety.

Sweat stage: Great exhaustion with relief from fever.
(b)Remittent and continuous fever like typhoid, influenza, dengue arid the like.

Causation: Summer bathing, rainy Weather, damp weather, exposure to cold air, walking in
damp place, tank and river bathing.

Mode of onset: Usually there is insidious onset, or when acute diseases assume a typhoid form.
At the onset: Diarrhoea with begining of typhoid.

During fever: Restlessness, Cannot stay in one position, Must change position often to obtain
relief from pain (From mental anxiety).

Arsenic : Everything on which the patient lies seems too hard, Arnica, Needs covering because of
great sensitiveness to open air.

Tongue : Having TRIANGULAR RED TIP: tongue dry cracked, sore with imprint of teeth.

is : Low muttering type of delirium, talks about rowing, swimming, daily occupation, ete.
).
