Tabacum 605

Concomitant—There is paroxysmal oppression, tinnitus aurium, muscae volitantes with violent
palpitation when lying on left side and pallor of skin. Mind calm and no fear of death.

Sweat—Cold clammy sweating with coldness of body.

Gastro-intestinal tract:
Stomach :
Causation—tobacco, going at sea, during cholera.

Sensation : There is terrible, faint, sinking feeling at pit of stomach and sensation of hanging
or relaxation of stomach with incessant nausea and vomiting (Ipecac)

Nausea : With faintness; worse smell of tobacco smoke and better in open air. Vomiting with cold
sweat and worse on least motion. It is also useful in vomiting during pregnancy with much spitting.

Abdomen : Patient wants abdomen uncovered which relieves nausea and vorniting. Coldness in
abdomen (Colch., Lach.)

Rectum : Constipation—Chronic constipation of years standing due to inactivity of bowel or
paralysis of rectum, spasm of anal sphincter.

Diarrhoea : Sudden with nausea, vomiting, prostration, cold sweat and extreme fainting from
smell of tobacco. Stool is yellowish, greenish, slimy, watery sometimes may look like sour milk.

Urinary : Renal colic with violent spasmodic pains along left ureter accompanied by deathly nausea
and cold perspiration. (Right Ureteric Colic-Ocimum Can.)

General modalities :

Aggravation : from motion, from lying on left side, from heat, in warm room, extremes of heat and
cold.

Amelioration : Open fresh cold air, uncovering, from cold application.

Relations

Antidotes for abuse of tobacco are —
For ailments from tobacco chewing—Arsenic
For hiccough from tobacco chewing—ignatia
For excessive nauses & vomiting—Ipecac.
For occipital headache and vertigo from excessive smoking—Gelsemium.
For importency caused by tobacco smoking—Lycopodium.
For gastric symptoms next morning after smoking—Nux Vomica.
For palpitation, tobacco heart & sexual weakness—Phosphorus.
For tobacco dyspepsia, neuralgia & chronic nervousness— Sepla.
For tobacco toothache—Clematis & Plantago Major.
For cough excited by tobacco smoke-—Staphy. & Spongia.

N.B.: Caladium and Plantago Major destroy craving for tobacco, Tabacum also relieves terrible
craving when use is discontinued.

Antidoted by : Vinegar, sour apples, Camphor,
Antidotes ; Bad effects of Cicuta Virosa.

, i
