SILICEA

Synonym : Common Names:
Silica Silicious earth, pure flint or quartz

Silicea is found in the hair, nails, skin,
periosteum, neurilemma (nerve sheath), and a
trace in the bone tissue. This salt is
indicated in all suppurative processes until
the infiltrated parts have fully discharged
the accumulation of decaying organic
matter that may have arrived at a given
point during nature’s effort to eliminate it
from the system. In the first stage of any
swelling, Ferr. phos, and Kali mur. should be
given, but should these salts fail to abort
the process, Silicea should at once be given. The
theory is, that the particles of silica, being sharp-cornered, accumulate under the
intelligent operations of nature’s law of affinity or attraction and act as a lancet,
thus cutting a way through the tissue, skin, etc., for the escape of the non-
functional organic matter. But in order to carry on any work, nature must have
tools to work with. When silica is present in proper quantities, the process of
suppuration is carried on in a normal manner, When a deficiency of silica occurs,
suppuration is retarded; the greater the deficiency, the greater and more stubborn and
painful the swelling or part at which the matter is attempting to escape.

A deficiency of silica in the connective tissue between the cerebrum and cerebellum
produces a mental condition in which thinking is difficult. By supplying silica in
molecular form, the chemical affinity is restored and normal thought again established.

Silicea has also the power to reabsorb a bloody or sero-albuminous exudate, existing
within the tissues by means of the lymphatics. Here it often follows Calc. phos.

Silicea cures chronic gouty rheumatic affections by means of its stimulating effects of
the involved connective tissue cells, compelling these to throw off the accumulated urates
through the lymphatics.

Silicea can restore suppressed foot-sweats, and in this way be an indirect remedy for
diseases resulting from suppression of foot-sweat, for instance: amblyopia, cataract,
paralyses, etc.

If the cells of any part of the connective tissue show a lack of Silicia molecules, they
atrophy in consequence.

Its action is deep and long-lasting.

