268 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

PARTICULARS

Respiratory Symptoms :

Cough : Suited especially in WHOOPING cough with violent paroxysms which follow one another
rapidly.

Time: Usually at night.

Sensatin: Sensation of a feather in larynx, which excites cough. Sense of constriction and
crawling in larynx.

Character of Cough: Deep-sounding, hoarse, barking cough.

Spasmodic cough with gagging, retching and vomiting.

During cough, there is vomiting of water, mucus and often bleeding from nose and mouth.

Violent tickling in the larynx brings on cough, makes the patient get up from sleep, coming on every
few hours.

There is spasmodic difficulties of chest and larynx, causing difficult breathing and suffocation.

Sensation as if something in the chest preventing breathing when talking or coughing.

The face becomes purple from spasms in larynx with suffocation. Severe attack of stitching in the

chest when sneezing. Compression of the chest. Burning sensation in the chest, stitching pain in the
chest.

With cough there is copious sweat all over the body.

Character of sputa: Usually there is no expectoration. But where there is expectoration, the sputa
is yellowish or greenish. ;

Modality: Aggravation after mid-night, by warmth, drinking, singing, talking, laughing, speaking,
LYING DOWN as soon as head touches the pillow; after measles.

Laryngitis :
There is severe hoarseness with sore throat.

Sensation: Constriction and crawling sensation in the throat, tickling as from a feather like
sensation in the larynx.

Character: en's sore throat with rough, dry, scraping sensation in deep fauces. Voice is
hoarse, deep, toneless, . requires great exertion to speak. The hoarseness and continued irritation
cause coughing and scraping of the larynx.

Phthisis :
Drosera is especially suited in phthisical condition of the lungs and larynx.

Character of cough: There is violent deep sounding, hoarse, barking cough, which is spasmodic in
nature with gagging, retching and vomiting. NOCTURNAL COUGH of young persons in phthisis.

Character of pain: With cough, there |s stitching pain in the chest. The patient must hold the
chest with both the hands to get relief.

Character of sputa: During coughing, there Is bleeding from various orifices, especially from the
nose, throat, larynx and chest. Bloody saliva and haemorrhage from the mouth with bloody or purulent
sputa. During coughing there is blue face with spasm of extremities.

Modality: Aggravation from talking, laughing, singing, and after mid-night.
