a
yeratrum Album 637
—

There is yet another state of mind also found in Veratrum album i.e., a state of
brooding, full of despair and hopelessness. The patient is melancholic, sits and

broods in silence.
The patient does not want to be alone, yet persistently refuses to talk.

Sensation of a lump of ice on the vertex.
Thinks that she is pregnant and will soon be delivered.
Cholera like symptoms after fright is also covered by this drug.

9, Ailments from : Fright, shock, injury, disappointed love, suppressed exanthema,
opium, tobacco, alcohol and fruits.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

The usual complaints met with in this drug, relating to the gastrointestinal tract, are VIOLENT
DIARRHOEA AND VOMITING OR CONSTIPATION. Violence in everything is the striking peculiarity
of this remedy.

Stomach : There is cold feeling injthe stomach with cutting pain as if from knives. There is also
sinking feeling in the stomach. Nausea and vomiting just after eating and drinking, are frequently found
The patient craves acid and refreshing juicy things.

There is great thirst for huge.quanitity of icy cold-water,
Constipation :
* Sensation: Desire is felt in epigastrium (Ign. —in rectum Nux vorn.).

* Character of stool: Dry, hard, in round black balls, very much gainful with much straining until
the patient is exhausted.

Diarrhoea :
¢ Causation: From fright, eating, drinking and taking fruits.
* Sensation; Cutting pain in abdomen as from knives.
* Character of stool: Stool is PROFUSE, watery, gushing and mixed with flakes.

¢ During stools: There is colic with cramps commencing in hands and feet spreading all over the
body, with COLD SWEAT ON FOREHEAD.

e After stool: There is great prostration.

* Modality: Aggravation from fright, Jeast motion, eating and drinking.

* Concomitants: Diarrhoea before and during menses (Bov., Ammon. Carb.).
Cholera :

¢ Causation: From fright or taking impure drinks.

¢ During cholera: There is PROFUSENESS OF DISCHARGES which runs through the whole
remedy e.g. PROFUSE PURGING, VOMITING, SWEAT, etc.

Violent vomiting with profuse diarrhoea, excessive vomiting and purging.
There is profuse, rice-watery stool which gushes out.

, a *
