238 (OM Gudk ot WATERIA MEDICA

Scrofulous people with rigid muscular fibres and light hair, or persons of lively quick
sanguine disposition with marked development of glandular system. Those who lead
sedentary life and are easily exhausted and excited and catch cold very readily.

Temperament: Melancholic and irritable temperament.

Relation with heat and cold: Easily affected by slightest exposure to cold air.
Miasm: Psora is in the background.

Diathesis: Scrofulous diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

i.

10.
15 8

12.
13.

14,

The strongest characteristic of Conium maculatum is its peculiar VERTIGO, which
is much aggravated by TURNING THE HEAD SIDEWISE or LOOKING AROUND
OR TURNING IN BED.

. Sweats day and night as soon as the patient sleeps or even when closing the eyes

(China, Thuja, Cactus rev. of Sambucus). Very offensive sweat.

. Swelling and induration of glands after contusion or bruise.
. Cancerous and scrofulous persons with enlarged glands.
. Intermittent flow of urine: great difficulty in passing urine; urine flows, stops and

flows again; from prostatic and uterine affections, or paretic conditions.

. Breast sore, hard and painful, especially during the menstrual period.
. Objects look red, rainbow coloured, double vision, weakness of sight, aversion to

light without inflammation, but, with intense photophobia.

_ Desire for warmth especially of the sun, coffee, acid and salty food.
. Aversion to open air, light, business, study, bread. Craving for salt, coffee and sour

things. Desire for warmth of sun.
Cough when lying down, aggravated from slightest exposure to cold air.

Cold stool and flatulence is a unique characteristic of Coniummac. (Hot stool and
flatulence, Sulphur).
Ascending type of paralysis reminds of Conium.

Mind : The patient is morose and ill humoured and easily angered. He is very much
quarrelsome and scolds always even at silly things.

The patient cannot and will not bear contradiction; excitement of any kind causes
mental depression.

The patient has no inclination to business or to study; very much indifferent and
indolent; does not take interest in anything.

Very forgetful; weak memory; is uanble to sustain and mental effort.
Cannot bear to be alone; dread of being alone; yet avoids society (Kali carb., Lyco.).

Ailments from : Blow or fall, contusion, sexual excess, sexual abstinence or
SUPPRESSED SEXUAL DESIRE: suppressed menses, excitement or over work.
