86 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

12

4, It attacks serous membranes causing copious serous effusion.
5. It attacks glands which indurate and suppurate.

6.
7
8
9

It causes inflammatory swelling with burning lancinating pains.

. It attacks periosteum.

. It attacks joints causing paleness, swelling, burning, pain, etc.

. It also causes general anasarca; skin pale, waxy or earth-coloured.
10.
11.

It causes rapid emaciation.

It also causes ulcerations which bum like fire, producing pains and discharges
which may be scanty, putrid and offensive.

The skin is irritated producing violent itching and burning followed by eruptions,
ulcerations, etc.

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: The patient is lean, thin, debilitated having hippocratic face, dirty

and waxy look of the skin.

Temperament: Very fastidious. Wants everything neat, clean and in order.
Relation with heat and cold: Chilly patient. There is internal chilliness and so the

patient craves heat, excepting in outer head.

Miasm: Arsenic has a combination of Psora, Syphilis and Sycosis.
Diathesis: Scrofulous diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. Arsenic patient has GREAT FEAR OF DEATH. Thinks that he is incurable, the

disease is fatal and it is useless to take medicines.

2. Mentally restless, but physically too weak and exhausted to move about. It is one

of the trio of restlessness (others being Aconite for mental restlessness and Rhus
tox. for Physical restlessness). Just like a horse an Arsenic patient is always
restless.

. Burning pain relieved by heat except in head. This is very much peculiar and

characteristic of Arsenic. Kent says that the patient wants to keep his body in a hot
room but head in refrigerator.

. Great prostration is persistently present, sinking of strength out of proportion to

a degree of illness.

. Gastric derangements such as diarrhoea, vomiting, etc., are due to food poisoning

from spoiled eggs, fish or meat, decayed food, alcohol, ice cream, etc.

. Complaints return periodically (usually annually), So it is a useful drug in

intermittent fever.

. All discharges are acrid, scanty, putrid, dark and offensive with cadaverous odour

(rotten egg—Sulphur; rotten cheese—Hepar Sulph; sour milk—Calc. carb.; like
fumes of sulphur Phosphorus).
