Hepar Sulphur 313

* During cough: The patient goes on coughing and sweating. He coughs and sweats. There is
much sweating without any relief.

* Modalities: Cough is worse in the morning, from exposure to dry west wind, cold air, cold
drinks, before mid-night and towards evening.

* Amelioration by warmth and in damp wet weather.
Asthma :
¢ Causation: After suppression of skin eruption.

* Character: Breathing difficult, with rattling and wheezing sound in the chest. The patient has to
take deep breath with threatened suffocation.

* Modality: The patient must bend head backwards and sit up which gives him temporary relief.
Better in DAMP wet weather and by covering the body.

Skin :

Hepar sulph. is a great remedy for skin affection; whatever may be the name of the disease, such as
eczema, itch, herpes, psoriasis, urticaria, acne, boils, abscess, rash, eruptions of all catogories. It has
unhealthy suppurating skin. EVERY LITTLE INJURY SUPPURATES (Sulphur, Graphites, Silicea). The
skin is very much sensitive and sore to touch. The skin and eruptions are so sensitive that the
patient cannot bear even the touch of the cloth. Eczema spreads by means of new pimples appearing just
above the old ones. Boils, abscesses and papules are prone to suppuration. Ulcers are very sensitive to
contact, easily bleeding, burning and stinging. Cannot bear to be uncovered; wants to be wrapped up
warmly.

In ABSCESSES AND BOILS where suppuration is inevitable, Hepar, if given in high potency, aborts
the abscess and in low potency it hastens suppuration and heals quickly.

Hepar Sulph. is prepared by mixing Calcarea carb, and Sulphur. Its symptoms, however, show wide
range of variations, in contrast to sulphur, particularly in relation to skin affections. Both of them are very
good remedies for skin troubles.Both have unhealthy skin and the eruptions suppurate but more
suppuration is found in Hepar, while severe scratching followed by burning is found in Sulphur. Hepar
skirt is highly sensitive: and sore to touch, even of cloth, but it is not so in Sulphur. Hepar is aggravated
by uncovering, whereas Sulphur is relieved by it. Sulphur is aggravated by heat of bed and washing but
Hepar is relieved by hot application and as such wants covering always. Dishcharges of Hepar are
corroding and smell like old cheese, which is not so in Sulphur. Hepar skin sweats profusely without any
relief, but Sulphur skin does not do so. Hepar has splinter-like pain, Sulphur has burning everywhere in
its stead.

Comparison :
Between the two great suppurative medicines viz., Hepar and Silica.

The discharge of Hepar are very offensive. Hepar promotes and regulates suppuration in a
remarkable manner (second only to Sil.), but is generally required at a stage earlier than Silica (Farrington).
But the genius of the two ‘remedies is dissimilar, because the modalities are poles apart. While Silica has
in it, want of self-confidence, lack of “grit”, timidity, sufferings from anticipation as when having to appear
in public—Hepar is sensitive beyond all bounds of reason, irritable and impetuous, sensitive mentally and
even subject to sudden murderous impulses.

General Modalities :

Aggravation: From cold air, uncovering, eating and drinking cold things, slightest draught of air,
touching affected parts, abuse of Mercury, lying on painful side and in clear fine weather.
