Actaea Racemosa (Cimicifuga) 19

2. Chilly Patients, easily affected by cold, sensitive to cold and relieved by warmth.
3. Muscular soreness, a bruised feeling all over the body.

4. Pain is like electric shock here and there, sharp, lancinating, in various parts; chest
and uterine region, shoots from side to side.

5. Mind. This remedy is full of mental symptoms. Fear, anguish and restlessness are
well marked.There is fear of death with great suspicion.

The = inn racemosa panes has got mania which occurs in nervous _ hysterical
Sensation as if a heavy, Stack cloud had settled all over her and enveloped her head
so that everything is in darkness and confusion; as if some weight is laid upon the
head. There is illusion of a meese running under her chair (A Ethusa, Lac

caninum). ays by ;
+ haba Cee Yor on down

She is sad, melancholic, gloomy and low spirited. She is bowed dawn with sorrow
and sits and mops in great sadness. Hysterical girls in a state, of sadness and she
will sit and say nothing. When questioned, she will break into tears or express in
various ways the overwhelming sadness, with chorea and e nd epileptic fit as a reflex
symptom from uterine diseases. There is also changeable mood; physical and
mental symptoms are all the time changing. The mental state following
disappearance of rheumatism is a strong feature. The Theumatism gets better, but
the mental state becomes worse. All the mental symptoms change proportionately,
worse during menstruation and compared to the amount of menstrual flow; more
profuse the flow, greater the mental distress.

6. Ailments from : Anxiety, fright, diaarpointed love, business failure, over-exertion,
child bearing, etc.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation: From cold, damp wet weather. The headache is also of rheumatic origin,

Sensation: Sore, bruised feeling all over the head; bruised sensation in the occiput; sore, bruised
feeling on the top of head, as if top of the head would fly off.

Character: Shooting and throbbing pains in the head from reflex symptoms of uterus. Brain feels
too large with waving sensation or opening and shutting sensation in the head, Pains as if pressing
outward, Pressing type of headache with soreness in the back of neck.

With headache, the eye balls are very sore; feels pain if he turns head to any direction with ciliary
neuralgia, aching or sharp, darting, shooting pain in the globes extending” to the temples, vertex and

occiput.
Modalities:
* Aggravation: From going upstairs; during menses; weather changes; cold damp weather.

* Amelioration: By lying down.
