Kali Bichromicum 339

ou

Character of ulcers: Punched out ulcer of stomach with pain in small spots which can
be covered with the tip of a finger; shifts rapidly from one part to another, appears and

disappears suddenly.
There is great desire for beer and acids.
Modality: Aggravation after eating.

Concomitants: With the above symptoms there is VOMITING OF ROPY, STRINGY
MUCUS AND BLOOD. Gastric symptoms alternate with rheumatism.

Stool :
* Character: Dysentery with jelly-like mucus, great tenesmus. Stool is brown, ropy
and stringy.
Dysentery alternates with rheumatism.
* Modality: Aggravation in the morning and by taking beer.

Respiratory Symptoms :

Nose : Pressive pain in root of nose:

Sinusitis : Septum is ulcerated, - with foetid smell, inability to breathe through the
nose. Inflammation of frontal sinus with stopped up sensation and loss of Smell.

Character of discharge: Discharge of plugs, tough, ropy, free, fluid mucus in clear
masses and has violent pain fromocciput to forehead.

Throat : In diphtheria, when fauces are red and inflamed; pseudo-membranous
deposit on soft palate; tonsillitis. The attack is prone to extend downwards to larynx and
trachea. Uvula swollen, oedematous, of bladder like appearance, much swelling but little
redness. (Uvula of Rhus tox. is also oedematous but with redness).

Cough : Character of Cough: Violent, rattling cough with gagging and Vomiting.

Cough with expectoration of TOUGH, ROPY AND STRINGY DISCHARGED
MUCUS WITH DYSPNOEA.

* Modalities: Aggravation when undressing and on sitting up. Amelioration by
lying down.

* Concomitants: With cough there is pain in chest in small spot that can be -
covered with the tip of a finger; shifting pain, appears and disappears suddenly,

Rheumatism :
* Causation: Syphilitic rheumatism.
* Sensation: Tearing sensation in the tibia, with swelling and stiffness of joints.

* Character of pain : WANDERING PAINS; pains, fly rapidly from one-place to
another; pain comes suddenly and goes suddenly; pain in small spots which can be
covered wfith the tip of a finger.

* Modality: Aggravation from cold and from motion.
® Concomitants: Rheumatism alternates with gastric symptoms, one appearing in
the fall and the ether in the spring.

f"™
