Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

3. Sensation as something alive were moving in the stomach, abdomen, uterus, arms or
other parts of the chest or body (Sabina, Thuja, Sulphur). This may be definite
sensation or it may be a hallucination or a fixed idea.

4. Spasmodic contraction and twitchings of single sets of muscles (Agaricus, Ign.,
Zincum met. Aconite).

5. Mind : Crocus sativus patient shows very striking and rare mental symptoms
which are as follows :

There is frequent and extreme change in sensation: sudden, from the greatest hilarity
to the deepest despondency, (Ign., Nux mos., Platina). The patient is excessively
happy, affectionate; wants to kiss every body, but the very next moment she is in
rage; anger with violence, rapidly followed by repentance. Laughter quickly followed
by tears. Chorea and hysteria with great hilarity; singing and dancing alternating
with melancholy and rage.

There is a very peculiar and important sensation found in Crocus ie. as if
something alive were moving in the abdomen, chest, etc. It may be either a real
sensation or a hallucination. It is equally serviceable in PHANTOM PREGNANCY

where the sensation of movement in the pelvis, real or imaginary, leads to a definite
conviction of pregnancy.

PARTICULARS
Eyes :

Sensation in the eyes as if the room were filled with smoke, as if he had been violently weeping. A
constant desire to wink and wipe the eyes with a feeling as though a film of mucus were over the eyes.
The vision seems dim as though the whole room were full of smoke or as if cold wind is blowing across
the eyes.

Lachrymation on reading. Tears rushes out from the dim eyes as soon as he begins to read. The
lachrymation occurs only when the patient is in the room and not when he is in the open air.

There is itching in the eyelids, pain as from excoriation and sensation of burning in the eyes and
eyelids, especially when closing them or while reading.

Nose :

Epistaxis only from one nostril at a time. Nose bleeds. The character of blood is BLACK, VISCID,
CLOTTED, FORMING INTO LONG, BLACK STRINGS, HANGING FROM THE NOSE, every drop can
be turned into a thread with cold sweat in large drops on forehead.

Female genital organs :

Menses. Crocus is suited for DYSMENORRHOEA AND METRORRHAGIA.
Time: Too early,
Quantity: Too profuse.

Character of blood: Dark, stringy, viscid, clotted, forming long black strings, hangs from the
bleeding surface: rush of blood to genitals.
