Ledum Palustre 373

5. Swelling and shooting pain in knees when walking.

6. Stiffness of all joints; can only move them after applying cold.

7. Rheumatism or gout in lower limbs which ascends, (Arnica—descencds, Cacutus
and Kalmia).

8. Swelling of feet upto,knees, with unbearable pain when walking as from a sprain or
false step; ball of great toe swollen, painful heels as if bruised.

9, Punctured wounds : From sharp pointed instruments, as awls, rat bites, nails,
particularly if the wounded parts are cold.

10. The swellings are pale, sometimes odedematous and aggravated at night in the heat
of bed. Uncovering or cold water relieves.

11. Eruptions which burn and sting like the bites or stings of insects.
12. Emaciation of suffering parts, after infected injuries to nerves.

13. Ailments from : Abuse of alcohol, colchicum, injuries from sharp pointed
instruments, rat bites, stings of insects especially mosquitos.

PARTICULARS

Eye :
Haemorrhage into interior chamber of eyes after iridectomy (Amica, Ruta).
Cataracts with gout.

Face :

Red pimples on forehead and cheeks, stinging when touched, crusty eruption around nose and
mouth.

Injury :
Causation: Punctured wounds, by sharp pointed instruments, as awls, nails, rat bites, mosquito bites
or blows.

Location: Punctured wounds anywhere on the body. Haemorrhage into anterior chamber of eyes
after iridectomy (Amica, Ruta), Contusions of eyes and lids, especially if much extravasation of blood,

Causing ecchymosis of lids and conjunctiva.
Sensation: Pain es if the whole body is bruised and beaten.

Character: Pain in ankles as if sprained or from false step. Pains are of sticking, tearing and
throbbing type.

Modalities ; Aggravated by motion and at night, by warmth of bed and covering.
Amelioration by applying ice-cold water,

Concomitants : Long remaining discolouration after Injury. Black and blue places become
green. Emaciation of affected part (Graphites). Parts are very cold to touch but not cold subjectively to
Patient.
