ALLEN’S KEY NOTE — an easy explanation 713

Cyanosis (Carb An.) A bluish tinge manifested by hypoxic tissue, observed most frequently
under the nails, lips and skin, It is always due to lack of oxygen.

Culpability of the act (Phos. A.) Blameworthiness.

Darting pain (Kalm, Mag. P.) Pain moving suddenly and quickly.
Dashed to pieces (Coffea) Broken into pieces.

Death-rattle (Ani. T.) A respiratoy gargling or rattling in the throat of a dying person caused
by the loss of cough reflex and accumulation of mucus.

Debauch (Curb. V., Nux-M., Salen.)
1. Pervert from virtue,or morality.
2. Occasion of excessive drinking or immoral behaviour.

Decrepit (Sec. c.) Wasted or worn out with age and infirmity.

Decubitus (Bapt, Fl-Ac, Lack, Petr) The recumbent position; Decubitus ulcer-pressure sore
or Bed-sore.

Deleterious substance (Anth.) Noxious or injurious substance.
Delicate children (Benz. A.) Feeble, weak children.

Delirium (Bap, Bry, Plum, Sabad, Stram) A condition of extreme mental and usually motor
excitement marked by rapid succession of confused and unconnected ideas, often with
illusions and hallucinations.

Delirium Tremens (Can. I., Hyos,Op., Ranun.) Delirium resulting from alcoholic
intoxication.

Delusion (Plat) A false belief which can not be altered by argument or reasoning.

Despondent (Apis, Mez, Cinch, Tub) Having or Showing loss of hope; wretched.

Diaper (Lye) Napkin for baby.

Diathesis The Constitutional or inborn state disposing to a disease group of diseases, or
metabolic or structural anomaly.

Diphtheritic Croup (Brom) Same as membranous croup,

Diplopia (Syph.) Double vision, due Usually to weakness or paralysis of some of the ocular
muscles.

Dissecting wounds (Anth.) Wounds occurring during dissection.

Drawn Condition (Aeth.) Pulled out of shape of the face or distorted condition of face,
looking very tired or worried.

Drenching perspiration (Crot. H.) Profuse perspiration making wet all over body.

Dropsy (Apis, Apoc, Colch, Hell. N, Sul.) An excessive accumulation ; of clear watery fluid in
any of the tissues or cavities of the body.

