78 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Mental confusion and dizziness with tendency to fall sidewards. Vertigo on closing
the eyes.

The patient is very impulsive. Does everything hurriedly, so much so that he even
drinks with great haste.

He has great fear of projecting buildings on street corners which creates a sensation
as if it would fall over him. The sight of height makes him dizzy.

Suicidal tendency prevails on him. When crossing high places or bridge or looking
out through a window, the impulse comes on him to jump down from it.

Reserved, sad, taciturn with dullness of head.
Feels as if a cloud hung over him.
xxTime passes very slowly (Alumina, Medorrhinum, Can Indica).
Very excitable and easily angered which brings on pain in head chest, etc.

19. Ailments from : Apprehension and fear; eating ice and ice-cream; sugar and sugar
candy. Mental stress and strain, tobacco, etc.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Headache of literary men, habitual or gastric in origin and from dancing. Also caused by
prolonged mental exertion.

Location: In the frontal eminence or temple.
Sensation: OF EXPANSION of the head and face.
Character of pain. Pressing, screwing pain in he frontal eminence or temples.

Modalities: Aggravation from mental exertion, during menstruation, bright light and relieved by
sitting in a dark room tight ban daging, open air, cold application and complete mental rest.

EYES :
Causation: Gonorrhoea, catarrhal condition, fine needle work and eye strain.

Character: Argentum nitricum has got many eye troubles such as Ophthalmia neonatorum in young
infants who contacted gonorrhoea during the passage through the birth canal of the infected mother there
is profuse purulent discharge, cornea is opaque, ulcerated lids are sore, thick and swollen which
agglutinate in the morning.

Granular conjunctivitis; scarlet red, like raw beef, eye strains from needle works.

Dilated pupil, with dimness of vision and intense photo-phobia. The inner canthi, are swollen and
congested. Paretic condition of the ciliary muscles; defective accommodation.

Modalities:
* Aggravation: Worse in a warm room, sitting by the side of fire and bright light.
¢ Amelioration: From cold application and in a dark room.
