ALLEN'S KEY NOTE — an easy explanation 731

constitution is tuberculous cervical adenitis with or without ulceration (Butter worth
Medical Diet. 2nd Ed.).

Stubbing a toe (Colch.) Striking toe against something hard (stone etc.).

Stump (Phos. Ac.) Amputated end.

Stupor (Bapt., phos. Ac.) A state of marked impairment of, but not complete loss of
consciousness. The victim shows gross lack of responsiveness, usually reacting only to
noxious stimuli, A condition of unconsciousness with suppression of sense of feeling.

Sub-involution (Lil. T., Podo, Psor.) An arrest in the normal involution of uterus following
child-birth, the organ remaining abnormally large.

Subsultus tendinum (Hyas) Twitching movements of the muscles & tendons particularly of
the wrist occurring in typhoid or asthenic fever.

Suggillation (Ham. V.) Ecchymosis; a black and blue mark.

Sulky (Ant. cr., Plat., Tub.) Unsocial from ill temper.

Sultry (Sep.) Hot and oppressive weather.

Sunburn (Ant. C. Canth.) Erythema caused by the actinic (short wave radiation) rays of the
Sun. A dermatitis associated with redness often blistering of the skin due to exposure to
sun. .

Sunken Countenance (Lack. Sec. c.) Face with prominent malar bones.

Sunstroke. (Glon, Ver. v.) Final stage of heat exhaustion, when the body is unable to lose
heat; hyperpyrexia occurs and death may ensue. The basic defect is failure of the heat
regulating mechanism of the body (Syn: Heatstroke).

Swarthy Person (Cinch.) Dark-complexioned person.

Swashing Sensation (Crot. T.) Splashing sound of a fluid.

Sweeten the stomach (Mag. C.) Mag. carb taken in crude form to neutralise the acidity of

stomach in order to make less painful. '

Sycosis (Thuja, Medo.) It is gonorrhoeal stigma. Sycosis is established after gonorrhoea is ©
suppressed by external methods. Then it becomes a systematic stigma, permeating every
living cell of the organism. (The Principles and Art of Cure by Homoeopathy—H. A.

Sycosis menti (Cicuta,) Barber's itch (Skin diseases of bearded part of face).

Sycotic diathesis (Asterius, Med., Nat. s., Phos. Ac, Sarsa, Thuj.) Patients of this diathesis
are suspicious, cross and irritable, deceitful, jealous, cruel and vindictive. They suffer
frdm diseases associated with proliferation and infiltration of tissues; .warty growths and
gouty concretions; valvular diseases of the heart. Complaints ameliorated by abnormal

discharges (e.g. Leucorrhoea, coryza etc.). They are prone to be attacked by Asthma,
Rheumatism, diseases of genito-urinary organs.

Sycotic Pneumonia (Nat. S.) Pneumonia having sycotic base or sy cotic back-ground.
Sympathetic cough (Naja T.) Cough associated with the heart disease.
