Mercurius 415

14. In the suppurative stage of small pox it is a specific remedy.
15. Flow of pus, particularly bloody pus from any orifice calls for Mercurius.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal tract :

Mouth : Bitter taste, sweetish, putrid or slimy or metallic, coppery, soapy, stringy, tenacious mucus
WITH INTENSE THIRST AND FOUL BREATH; profuse offensive saliva.

Tongue : Tongue is SWOLLEN, FLABBY; TAKES IMPRINT OF TEETH. Coated brown, black or
thickly coated, dirty, yellow in case of jaundice. May have painful ulcers.

Teeth : Toothache, pulsating, tearing, lacerating, shooting to the face or ears. Aggravated in damp
weather of evening from warmth of bed, from extremes of both heat and cold, but relieved by rubbing
the cheeks, “Teeth erown decoy - Raret 4eemy CHezeriue)

Gums : Gums are swollen, painful, sore, ulcerated, gangrenous, with bleeding on least touch.

Thirst : Although tongue is moist and salivated there is INTENSE THIRST.

Dysentery :

Causation: Fright and suppressed sweat.

Character of stool: Slimy, bloody, very offensive stool excoriating the anus. MORE THE
BLOOD THE BETTER IS MERC SOL., INDICATED. Cannot finish sensation; tenesmus_not relieved
after stool. (Temporary relief after stool, Nux vomica). lao kal

Modality: Aggravated at NIGHT.

Concomitants; Colic and fainting with creeping chilliness and thirst. Great tenesmus during and after
Colic.

(Maximum tenesmus is in Merc., cor., even for passing urine).

Respiratory System :
Nose : Nasal catarrh, with much sneezing, of fluent acrid corrosive discharge, with raw and ulcerated

nostrils. Yellow green, foetid puslike discharge. Shining bloody discharge from nostrils. Nasal bone
swollen, sore and painful.

Modality: Aggravated at night and FROM DAMP WEATHER.

Throat : Best indicated in tonsillitis and quinsy, diphtheria, laryngitis or pharyngitis, when there is
Constant desire to swallow. Uvula swollen and elongated, bluish, red swelling with burning and putrid
discharge with PROFUSE, OFFENSIVE SALIVA. Tongue large, flabby with imprint of teeth. Fever with
creeping chilliness, profuse offensive perspiration without any relief. All symptoms are worse at night

Pneumonia stage: Late in the hepatisation and resolution stages.
Location: When the lower lobe of right lung \s affected (Bryonta, Chelidonium, Kali carb., Lyco.).

Character of cough: Dry, fatiguing cough, usually coming in two paroxysms. (In 3 paroxysms—
Stannum met., Cup. met.) with stitching pain which extends to the back. Cough with yellow muco-
Purulent expectoration which may be mixed with blood, putrid or salty In taste; offensive breath.

Modality: Cough AGGRAVATED AT NIGHT AND FROM WARMTH OF BED WHEN LYING ON
RIGHT SIDE; in darmp wet weather. There is utter inability to lie on the right side (Bry., Natrum. mur.,
Phos., Sulph.).
