eEe—

Miasm: Psora is in the background.
Diathesis: Haemorrhagic diathesis.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. Any RAPID EXERTION OR MOTION brings on weakness, dyspnoea, sinking and
2.A strange symptom running through Ferrum is that the PAINS AND
SUFFERINGS COME ON DURING REST, such as palpitation, dyspnoea and

weakness. That is why the patient is ameliorated by MOVING ABOUT GENTLY in
the house or in open air.

3. Complaints from LOSS OF VITAL FLUID as is China especially from haemorrhage.

4. EXTRENE PALENESS of the face, lips and mucus membrane which become red
and flushed on least pain, emotion or exertion.

5. Red parts become white.

6. Haemorrhage from anywhere and everywhere; the character of the blood is
BRIGHT RED COAGULABLE.

7. Profound prostration with general anaemia, but with tendency to flushing of face
and head with headache.

8. Emaciation, weakness and trembling in frequent attacks.
9. Canine hunger or alternate loss of appetite with dislike for any food.
10. Dropsy due to loss of vital fluid, abuse of quinine, suppressed intermittents, etc.
11. Desire for bread; aversion to eggs, meat, milk, beer and sour things (Craving for
eggs—Calc. carb.).
12. Fiery red tongue (Apis., Crot. hor, Pyr.).
13. Ailments from : Loss of vital fluid, abuse of quinine, suppressed intermittents, etc.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation: Loss of vital fluid, abuse of quinine and suppressed intermittents.
Time: Periodic type of headache, every 2,3 or 4 days or every 2 or 3 weeks.

Character of pain: Hammering, beating, pulsating type of pain in head. Congestive type of
headache, pain in the back of head. Pain compels the patient to lie down:

Modalities: Aggravation by coughing and amelioration by pressure and Slow walking about.

Concomitants: With headache, there is vertigo with balancing sensation as if on water; also there
may be aversion to eating and drinking.

Vertigo :

When there is vertigo, the patient feels a peculiar sensation of balancing, as if on water, or the vertigo
appears on seeing flowing water, or as if walking over water when crossing a bridge, or on descending.
