178 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

—,

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

Abdomen :
Dyspesia with great flatulence, sinking at the pit of stomach, nausea and vomiting.
The patinet has great craving for stimulants.
There is much thirst, but drinking causes shuddering.
There is buring and smarting sensation in the abdomen,

Dysentery :
It is one of the royal remedies for dysentery.
Character of stool: The stool is full of mucus and blood. During stool there is stinging pain.
After stool the patient is thirsty with shuddering.

Every stool is followed by thrist and every drink by shuddering. There is drawing pain in the back
with great tenesmus, smarting and burning in anus and rectum.

Piles :

For bleeding, PILES WITH SORENESS IN ANUS, Capsicum is marvellous. There is stinging pain
during stool. Haemorrhoids protrude with smarting and burning pain, smarting like pepper. PILES STING
AND BURN AS IF PEPPER had been sprinkled on them.

After stool, there is drawing pain in the back,

Respiratory symptoms :
Causation: After taking cold and exposure to cold.

Cough: There is dry, hacking and explosive cough.

Every time the patient coughs, and at no other time, there escapes a volume of pungent, foetid air
from his mouth.

Modality: Cough is more violent in evening and at night.
Concomitants: Pain at distant parts of body while coughing e.g. bladder, legs, ears, etc. Headache
as if the head is going to burst.
Tonsillitis :
In inflammation of throat and tonsils, Capsicum is a royal remedy,
Sensation: Hot feeling in fauces, constrictive feeling in throat. Burning and smarting sensation.
Look of the throat: The throat is dark red, swollen and inflamed.

Character of pain: Pain and dryness in throat, extending to the ears. Sore throat of smokers and
drinkers. There is burning and smarting sensation as from cayenne pepper in the throat.

Modality:

* Aggravation: Between acts of deglutition (Ign.) In case of burning spasmodic constriction and
other pains.
Hoarseness :

In chronic hoarseness with constriction in the fauces and throat with buring, smarting pain, intense
soreness, Capsicum is infallible.

There is burning and smarting sensation as from cayenne pepper in throat, not relieved by heat.

