570 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

public speaker begins to doubt about his performance; but once he starts to deliver
his lectures, he gains back his usual self-confidence and command and he does well.
The patient is very sensitive to all impressions. There is WANT OF GRIT, both
mental and physical.

Fixed ideas : The patient has got pin mania, especially for babies. The patient
thinks of nothing except pins; he fears them, still searches for them and counts and
preserves them with great care. Headstrong and obstinate babies who cry when
kindly spoken to. Such babies usually surfer from convulsion after vaccinatioin.

17. Ailments from ; Vaccination, suppressed foot-sweet exposure to draught of air.
Chest complaints of stone cutters.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Causation: Chronic sick headache since some severe diseases of youth.

Location: Headache arises from the nape of neck ascends the vertex and finally settles over
the right eye; generally right sided headache.

Sensation: Sensation of roaring or shattering in brain.

Character of headache: Pressing and bursting headache as if eyes and brain were forced out.
Violent headache with confusion of mind. Violent tearing in head with pressive pain in morning. Jerking
headache extending to brain. Tearing in vertex as if it would burst. Headache with bruised pain above the
eyes so that the patient can scarcely open them.

Modalities:

* Aggravation: By mental exertion, noise, motion, jerking, light, stooping, cold air, uncovering,
draught of air.

* Amelioration: By binding the head tightly, by profuse urination and covering the head
warmly.

Concomitants: There is difficulty in holding up the head. Headache causes chilliness and nausea.
Scalpisvery sensitive to touch. The patient is very chilly with low vitality. He is usualty-eonstipated.

Gastro-intestinal symptoms :

Stomach. There is disgust for meat and WARM FOOD. Loss of appetite or ravenous hunger with
great thirst, but vomiting occurs after drinking (Arsenic, Ver.alb.).

Abdomen : There is painful cold feeling in the abdomen with much rumbling and colicky pain, better
from application of external heat; obstinate constipation.

Rectum : There is sensation of weakness or paresis whichresults in obstinate constipation so much
so that faeces is retained for a long time in the rectum, Stool passes out with great straining (Alumina,
Nux vom., Nux mos., Nat mur., Thuja). The pecullarity of the constipation and the stool is that it is partly
expelled and then recedes back again (Thuja). Consequently the stool has to be removed mechanically
(Calc. carb.).

Fistula in ano alternates with chest complaints. (Berb. vul, Calc. phos).

Painful fissures and haemorrhoids which cause Irritation and spasm of the sphincter-ani muscles.
Constipation always occurs before, during and after menses.
