Baptisia Tinctoria 105

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. All the discharges of the body such as stool, urine, sweat and ulcers are VERY

OFFENSIVE. Even breath is very offensive.

. In whatever position the patient lies, THE PARTS RESTED UPON FEEL SORE

AND BRUISED.

. Patient is unable to sleep as he thinks that his head and body are scattered around

the bed; he is three persons and is unable to keep them covered. So he tosses about
to get the pieces together.

. Patient falls asleep even before he can answer a question or in the midst of his

answer.

. Perfect indifference and incapability of thinking anything; stupid, inability of fixing

his mind on work, aversion to mental labour.

6. He can swallow liquid only; least solid food gags; his throat is sore but painless.

10.

. Look of the face is flushed, dusky and dark red with stupidness. Face and eyes are

suffused so as to give it a besotted appearance and expression is like that of a
drunkard,

. Ulceration in the mouth with offensive smell and dry tongue with a streak down the

centre.

. A typical “TYPHOID STATE” is present in all diseases, such as typhoid, dysentery,

diphtheria, etc.

Mind : Confused mind and perfect indifference. The patient is absolutely incapable
of thinking anything with utter inability to fix his mind on any work. Does not want
to do any mental work. °

The patient falls asleep either before completing the answer to a question, or
sometimes when he is in the middle of an answer. The patient tosses about and says

that he feels his head and/or body is scatterd around the bed; he is three pieces or
persons and is unable to keep them covered; so he tries to get those pieces together.

PARTICULARS

Typhoid Fever :

Dr. Burnett says, “Baptisia is the king of all remedies for typhoid. No remedy can supplant it in

the first stage.” It is claimed that Baptisia will, cut the disease short if given as soon as typhoid is
suspected. It can be said to be almost the specific remedy for typhoid fever in any stage.

The symptoms which call for Baptisia in typhoid are as follows:-

(a) Temperature: Ranging from 103°F to 106°F. There Is great nervousness, chilliness and aching
pain especially in head, back and limbs. SORE AND BRUISED FEELING OF THE PARTS
RESTED UPON, IN WHATEVER POSITION HE LIES, is well-marked.

(b) Pulse: There is marked bradycardia, Pulse \s full and soft.
