Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

5) Throat symptoms go from left to right.
6) Can swallow warm food more easily.
7) Dryness of fauces and throat.

8) Headache from too much thinking, too close application or attention and from
worms.

9) Delirium during intermittants (Podo.)
10) Desire for sweets, hot things and for farinaceous food,
11) Clock like periodicity of Complaints (Cedron).
12) Ailments from: Fright, mental exertion, thinking, worms.

13) Mind : Mentally sabadilla patient is nervous, timid and easily startled. She has
erroneous notions about herself. She imagines that she is pregnant when her
abdomen is merely distended with flatulence and she has some hor-rible sore throat
disease which will be fatal. The Sabadilla patient also imagines that he is sick and
his parts are shrunken. There is sensation of skin hanging loosely in throat and he
must swallow over it.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation : From too much thinking ; too close application or attention, from worms.
Sensation : There is boring, burning and pressive pain in head with heaviness of head.

Concomittant: Headache with vertigo as if things were turning around him or as if all things were
turning around each other. It is accompanied by blackness before eyes and sensation of fainting.

Modalities :
Aggravation: In forenoon, cold, mental exertion, thinking.
Nose :

Being a topmost sneezing remedy it is indicated in hay fever, influenza etc. There is spsmodic
paroxysmal sneezing with copious water discharge from nose. Face is hot and eye lids red and burning
with lachrymation. There may be severe pain in frontal region of head with coryza. Influenza with violent
spasmodic sneezing and lachrymation on going to open air.

Throat:
Sabadilla is specially indicated in tonsillitis and diphtheria.
Location : Being on the left side and extended to the right side.

Sensation : Sensation of a skin hanging loosely in throat, must swallow over it. Sensation of a lump
in throat with constant necessity to swallow, There is dryness of fauces andthroat, empty swallowing is
most painful & patient can swallow warm food more easily. Patient imagines that she has some
horrible throat disease that will be fatal.

Modalities:
Aggravation : Cold air, cold food & drinks.
Amelioration : Warm food and drink.
