386 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

There is constant sense of fermentation in the abdomen, immediately after a light meal, abdomen is
bloated; recurrent bilious attack with vomiting of bile.

Abdomen : There is CANINE HUNGER. The more he eats the more he craves; headache if he does
not eat; despite insatible appetite A FEW MOUTHFULS FILL UP TO THE THROAT. There is
EXCESSIVE ACCUMULATION OF GAS AND FLATULENCE ESPECIALLY IN THE LOWER .
ABDOMEN WITH loud grumbling and croaking, rolling of flatus as though fermentation was going on,
but not relieved by passing flatus and eructation. Lycopodium patients are always belching. They have
eructations that are sour and acrid. “SOUR STOMACH", sour vomiting flatus, eructations, heartburn and
water-brash, worse by cold drink and often relieved by warm drinks. The accumulation of gas, flatulence,
water-brash, heartburn, all are worse in the evening FROM 4 TO 8 P.M.

Constipation : Constipation of infants; since puberty or last confinement, when away from home
with ineffectual urging. Rectum contracts and protrudes during stool. Along with it there is developing
piles, contraction of sphincter ani.

Respiratory System :

Throat : Lycopodium is an excellent remedy for affections of throat, such as in diptheria, tonsillitis,
laryngitis, pharyngitis, etc,

Location: Complaints start on the right side and goes to the left.

Sensation: Constructive feeling in the throat.

Look of the throat: Brownish, red colour of membrane. Stitching pain in the throat, aching
drawing type of pain.

Modalities: Aggravation: FROM 4—8 P.M. after sleep and FROM COLD DRINKS.
Amelioration: By warm drink.

Pneumonia : Lycopodium is an infallibe remedy for pneumonia too. It is generally indicated in
advance stage; in neglected or maltreated or in delayed resolution stage of pneumonia.

Site: Lower lobe of right lung is usually affected (Chelidonium, Bryonia, Merc.sol., Kali carb.).
Character of cough: Deep, hollow, shattering cough.

Character of sputa: Large quantity of thick, yellow, puruleiit mucous affording little or no relief.
Sputa is greenish yellow, dirty or foetid.

Look of the face: During pneumonia, the face is cyanosed, shallow and unhealthy complexion
and cold face. There is furrowing of forehead and fan-like motion of alae nasi.

Concomitants: With the above symptoms, there may be fan-like motion of alae nasi and pulse

Modality; WORSE FROM 4-8 P.M., right side.

Urinary Symptoms :
Lycopodium is often indicated and found quite suitable IN RIGHT SIDED RENAL COLIC.

Character of pain: There is terrible pain along the course of the right kidney and ureter, drawing,
aching pain.
Child cries before urination (Borax).

Character of Urine: RED SAND IN URINE; urine Is dark, red or albuminous with strangury; scanty
urine during day and copious and frequent at night.
