406 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

7) Intermittent Fever :
Causation : Cases abused by cinchona & quinine.

Chill stage—This stage predominates in Menyanthes. Col-dness felt most acutely in
abdomen & legs. It is felt most severely on the back, and it is greatly relieved by
warmth of the stove or near fire. As soon as he rises from his bed in the morning he
feels coldness creeping over abdomen, back and sides. Icy coldness of hands and feet
as if immersed in ice water. There is shivering with yawning.

Heat stage : There are flushes of heat with hot ears and cheeks.
Sweat stage : Perspiration in evening as soon as he lies down—Continuing all night.

Menyanthes can be compared with Apis Mel, Cedron, China, Chin Ars, Eup.
Perf. Ignatia, Lycopodium, Nat Mur. Ver. Alb. in intermittent fever.

Apis Mel : Chill begins at 3-00 p.m. with thirst. Pulse is full and rapid, small and
trembling intermittently. No thirst in sweat stage. Worse from warm and heated
room and exter-nal heat.

Cedorn : It is a valuable remedy in intermittent fever espe-cially when there is a
clock wise recurrence in succesive attacks of fever & chill. Before Chill,
there is a great mental excitement & exaltation of vital energy. General coldness
renewed by every movement. During heat stage red face & thirst for warm drink is
marked. It is soon followed by a state of profuse perspiration.

China : In China all the three stages of fever, chill, heat & sweat are very well
marked. Paroxysm anticipated from two to three hours before each attack. It
returns every seven or fourteen days, but never at night. There is a profuse
debilitating sweat all over on being covered or during sleep.

Chin. Ars. : Intermittent fever with great prostration and periodicity. Chill stage
prodominates with little thirst and continuous convulsive yawning.

Eup. Perf : In Eup. Perf. the time of paroxysma is generally between 7 A.M. and 9
A.M. It is postponing type. There is great thirst for several hours before the fever.
He knows chill is coming because he cannot drink enough. Drinking hastens chill
and causes vomiting at close of Chill. The bruised feeling, as if broken all over the
body, bony pain affecting back, chest, limbs especially the wrists which feel as if
dislocated. The more general and severe the pain, the better it is indi-cated and
adapted.

Ignatia ; Fever paroxysm comes with marked periodicity. Fever comes at the same
hour everyday. In fever the face is red during chill, pale during heat, also there is
great thirst during chill stage of fever and no thirst in heat stage. There is great

yawning and stretching before the attack of fever. The suffering of the patient is
aggravated by covering and relieved by exiernal heat.

Lycopdium : Chill between 3 & 4 p.m. The patient feels as if lying on ice. One chill
is followed by another. There is sour vomiting between chill & heat stage.

Natrum Mur : It is especially to be though of in chronic, intermittet fever and old
badly treated cases especially after suppression by quinine. Fever paroxys™
