330 Text Book of MATERIA MEDIC,

CONSTITUTION

Physical make-up: Persons of dark or black hair and eyes with a low cachectic
condition. Profound debility and GENERAL EMACIATION overgrown body with
hypertrophy and induration of gland.

Temperament: Irritable temperament,

Relation with heat and cold: Very HOT PATIENT, RATHER he is the HOTTEST
patient.

Miasm: Psora is in the background.

Diathesis: Scroufulous diathesis with glandular enlargement. Tubercular diathesis,

GUIDING SYMPTOMS
1. Ravenous hunger; feels relieved while eating and after eating.
2. Losing flesh while eating well (Abrot., Nat. mur., Tuber.).

3. All glands of the body are HYPERTROPHIED AND ENLARGED EXCEPT THE
MAMMARY GLAND.

4, All the symptoms are WORSE FROM WARMTH in general and better from cold in
general e.g. cold air.

5. Profound debility and loss of breath on going upstairs.

6. Discharges are acrid and corrosive ..g. foot-sweat, leucorrhoea, etc.

7. Pulsation all over the body e.g. stomach, back, even arms and fingers.
8. Sensation of constriction and squeezing, especially in heart.

9. Intense restlessness with apprehension.

10. Mind : The lodum patient is very much weak in mind; forgetfrul, cannot remember
a little thing. He forgets what he was about to say or to do. The forgetfulness is
extensive. There is great anxiety, especially when quiet, with depression. The
patient must keep himself busy. Though mentally exhausted, he is compelled to
keep busy and continue the work.

Again there is Sudden impulse to do some violence; he wants to do something
hurriedly; he has impulse to kill. In this it is very closely related to Aresenic, Hepa
and Natrum Sulph.—all these have got impulse to murder without any cause but
the difference is in sensitiveness to heat. While lodum is very warm blooded, others
are always chilly.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :

Stomach : Throbbing pain at the pit of stomach, Empty eructation day and night as if every particle
of food were turned into air (Kali carb.).

Indigestion from over-eating with much flatulence, sour eructation and belching.
