Belladonna 117

obliged to walk with great care for fear of jar. Transverse colon’ protrudes like a pad. Great pain in the
ileo-caecal region. Cannot bear the slightest touch.

Stool : Due to paralysis of sphincter ani, there is involuntarty evacuation of stool. The stool is tardy,
clay-coloured, thin, with thin slimy mucus and occasional blood. Contains small lumps like chalk; sour
smell of the stool; with great tenesmus, spasmodic constriction of sphincter ani and backache as if it is
breaking.

Urine : Urine may be suppressed or copious; frequent urging with small quantiy passing at a time.
Urine may be bright yellow or clear and watery, but becomes turbid on standing, Retention of urine which
passes only drop by drop. Involunatary mictruition with paralysis of the sphincter urethrae. Vesical region
is very sensitive to pressure or jar and motion.

Cough :

* Causation; Exposure to cold, hair cut, getting wet. sensation: Sensation as if larynx were
inflamed, swollen and constricted.

* Character of Cough: Tickling, short, dry, spasmodic, hollow and hoarse cough, awaking after
mid-night. Attack of cough ends in sneezing. Cough with tenacious expectoration. Pertussis, cough
preceded by crying. Larynx is very painful; feels-as if a foreign body were in it. Voice is husky and hoarse.
Dryness of larynx. There is pressive pain in the chest with shortness of breath.

Modalities:
* Aggravation: By least jar and motion, evening, draught of cold air, after mid-night, lying down.
¢ Amelioration: In warm room, rest, open air, wrapping up, by standing or sitting erect.
* Concomitants: Constriction across the chest as if pressed inward from both sides. Breathing

laboured unequal, with stitches in the chest when coughing. During whooping cough, there is redness of
face with dilated pupils.

Fever :
¢ Causation: Draught of air, cold wind, uncovering the head, from hair cut and summer sun.
¢ Mode of onset: SUDDEN and VIOLENT is the onset of Belladonna fever.

* Symptoms of fever: There is severe chill in the evening mostly on arms with heat of head.
Along with natural chill, there is external burning heat. Chill and heat often alternate. Extremities are
usually cold.

There is high fever, sudden rise of temperature with RED face and THROBBING OF CAROHDS;
pulse strong and quick. Intense burning heat both internally and externally. Sweat is only on the covered
parts and on head or there may be complete lack of any sweat. Sweat, if it occurs, appears and
disappears suddunly, Generally there is no thirst. Pulse is frequent and full or slow and fulh Chill not
relieved by heat of stove. Fever comes at 3 p.m. (Apis).

* Concomitants: Confusion of mind, anxiety and trembling with FURIOUS DELIRIUM (See
Mind). In teething children, there is convulsion with fever; which comes suddenly with head hot and feet
cold.

Meningitis :
* Causation: Draught of air, cold wind, uncovering the head, from hair cut and summer sun.
* Mode of onset: Sudden and violent.
