584 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

mp oN

For the mental effects of onanism, sexual abuse or sexual excess,

. Anger with indignation is one of the important causes for many of the ailments,
. Great nervous weakness; weakness of memory from sexual excess.

. For bad effects of injuries from sharp cutting instruments and post-surgical

operations.

. Sleepy all day, awake all night, with bodyache all over (Psor., Lac. can.—rev. of

Lyco).

6. Styes and chalazae on eyelids, leaving hard nodosities in their place.

10.

11.

. Toothache during menses. Teeth are very painful to touch of food or drink, but not

from biting or chewing; aggravated by drawing in cold air into mouth (rev. of Mez.).

. There is intense CRAVING FOR TOBACCO.
. There is intolerable urging to urinate; still the patient has to wait for a long time to

pass urine; with subsequent burning in urethra.

Persistently dwelling on sexual subjects. Constantly thinking of the sexual
pleasure.

Cough only in daytime (Euphrasia, Fer. met.) and is excited by cleaning the teeth
and by tobacco smoke.

_ Extreme appetite even when the stomach is full of food. Ravenous hunger a day

before the attack of fever.

. Eczema with acrid oozing; new vesicles from contact of the exudations.
14.

Mind : Staphisagria manifets various peculiar mental symptoms which are as
follows:-

Mental affections are caused by onanism, sexual excess, sexual abuse,
pride, envy or chagrin and anger with indignation.

The patient is very sensitive to slightest me’ntal impression and least action. Even
harmless word offends (Ign.).

Great indignation about things done by others or by himself; but grieves about
consequences,

The patient is very apathetic and indifferent; low-spirited and has weak memory
from sexual abuse (Anac., Aur., Nat., Phos acid).

Ill humoured children cry for things which, after receiving, they petulantly push
and throw away (Bry., Cham., cina., Kreosote).

The patient was insulted, but being too dignified to fight, subdued his wrath and
went home sick, trembling and exhausted; very much abashed and apprehensive.

Sensation of a round ball in the forehead sitting firmly there, even after shaking the
head (Sensation of ball in the head and inner parts, Sepia in the urinary bladder,
Lachesis).
