660 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

The life of these cells is of short duration. Millions of them are constantly breaking
down and new ones are just as rapidly being built up. The necessary material for this
continuous rebuilding being supplied from the blood stream. Hence it can readily be seen
that, if the blood lacks the necessary quantities of these active, life-giving, inorganic
elements, the rebuilding process cannot proceed in a normal orderly manner, and the
resulting disturbance of the bodily rhythm gives rise to what is called “disease” in one of
its many and varied forms.

A shortage or deficiency of one or several of these vital mineral substances may arise
from a variety of causes; injuries, self-poisoning and obscure influences which in many
instances science has not yet been able to explain. The fact we have to recognise is that
“disease” - the word simply means lack of ease - indicates a disturbance of the bodily
rhythm; a disturbance which interferes with the assimilation and transport of the vital
materials essential for the repair and maintenance of living tissues. Obviously, if the
cells do not receive their proper nourishment and are not cleansed of the poisonous waste
material resulting from cellular activity, ill-health becomes inevitable.

THE TWELVE TISSUE SALTS

The twelve biochemic remedies of Schuessler, sometimes referred to as mineral salts
or tissue salts (we use the term, tissue salts), are absolutely harmless; they are not drugs
in any sense of the word. They simply provide to the system the deficient inorganic
elements, prepared homoeopathically, in an extremely finely subdivided form - a form
which ensures their ready assimilation and a speedy restoration of that balance and
harmony in the system which spell health and happiness.

There is nothing miraculous in the action of these remedies; their virtues are derived
from the application of principles based upon the laws of nature. They are to the ailing
what food is to the starving man. They bring ease by the logical process of removing the
cause of disease. The biochemic system of medicine rests upon a firm foundation; it has
stood the test of searching investigation. The more recent discoveries in the field of
biological research, and the findings of present-day biochemists, confirm its teachings. In
fact, later discoveries, made after his death, serve to pay handsome tribute to the
wonderful insight and true medical genius of Dr. W. H. Schuessler, the founder of
Biochemistry.

THE TWELVE TISSUE SALTS

The Abbreviated Names by which they are usually known are as follows :

CALC FLUOR (Calcium Fluoride)
CALC PHOS (Calcium Phosphate)
CALC SULPH (Calcium Sulphate)
FERR PHOS (/ron Phosphate)
KALI MUR (Potassium Chloride)
KALI PHOS (Potassium Phosphate)

eo fF & NS
