228 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Toothache :

Intermittent, jerking toothache temporarily relieved by holding ice water in the mouth but returns
when water becomes warm. The pain is excessive and causes weeping, trembling, nausea & tossing
about. Coffea toothache can be compared with the following drugs.

Bismuth : Pressure in the region of malar bones relieved by running about and holding cold water
in mouth but aggravated when water becomes warm ; the patient is ill humor, morose and discontented
but still solitude is unbearable.

Bryonia : Toothache relieved by cold water worse by taking anything warm in mouth. Pain shoots
from one tooth to another, also in head and cheeks. Toothache momentarily relieved by lying on painful
side. Great thirst, constipated bowels and mental irritability, coated tongue are concomitant symptoms
present with toothache.

Chamomilla : Toothache if anything warm is taken into mouth, on entering warm room, in bed,
from coffee, during menses and pregnancy. There is irritable and whining mood during the pain.

Pulsatilla : Stitching digging pain worse in evening or early night. Toothache worse in warm room,
warm bed, when eating but not from chewing from anything warm in mouth ; better from walking about
& ceases entirely in open air. Toothache with chilliness of body & no thirst.

Neuralgia : The neuralgia of the face is a common feature of old coffee drinkers. Coffea is a very

good remedy for neuralgia when the pains are unbearable, driving patient to despair. Patient feels
perfectly discouraged and tosses in agony. He cries & throws about himself. There is fear of fresh air and

of the least noise. Crural neuralgia worse by motion, afternoon & night, better by pressure.
’ Modality : Agg. : In open air, touch
Ame. : By warmth.

Heart symptoms : Violent irregular palpitation of heart with trembling of limbs. Nervous palpitation
after excessive joy, surprise. Rapid high tension pulse and urinary suppression.
General Modalities :

Aggravation : Excessive emotion (joy), narcotics, strong odors, noise, open air, cold night.

Amelioration : Warmth, from lying down, holding ice in mouth.

Relation :
Compare : Aco., Cham., Ign., Sulph. Incompatible : Canth,, Caust., Coc., Ign.
