SEPIA

Cuttle Fish HAHNEMANN Mallusca

INTRODUCTION

Popularly known as the “Washer Woman's
remedy”. Sepia is one of the _ greatest
contributions to Homoeopathy, by Master
Hahnemann.

The crude substance for preparation of this
wonderful constitutional remedy is a_ liquid
contained in the ‘INK BAG’ of the Cuttle fish.
This brownish black substance is ejected out by
the fish from its gland to protect itself from any
external aggression. A very small insignificant
quantity of this ink is capable of making the
whole water around the fish completely dark so
that the enemy would get confused arid lose sight of the fish and thus it can ascape
unhurt. The drug substance thus possesses the great potential power in its inherent,
dormant and latent state which when aroused is capable of curing a variety of diseases,
particularly chronic, in nature in the same way as the cuttle-fish protects itself from any

dangerous enemy.

Hahnemann got the clue to initiate proving of this remedy from a patient, who was in
the regular habit of wetting his brush containing Indian Ink with his own saliva. Every
time he did so, a very small portion of the ink would naturally find its way into the
stomach to be absorbed by the system. By and by, he developed certain chronic ailments.
Hahnemann treated him with all the then known similimums to he best of his skill and
ability but without any appreciable benefit. Excepting that his habit of wetting his brush
with his own saliva and consequent affection of the ink, would have been the maintaining
cause, the artist was advised to discontinue with his profession. The artist obeyed him and
he was completely redeemed of all his chronic ailments. This unique pleasant experience
ultimately led him to prove Sepia for the benefit of generations of mankind.

CLINICAL

Abdominal disorders, Amenorrhoea, Apoplexy, Asthma, Cough, Cancer, Dyspepsia.
Eczema, Eye affection, Female genital organs, Gout, Gonorrhoea, Headache, Jaundice,
Leucorrhoea, Liver affection, Preganancy, Psoriasis, Prolapse of uterus, Ptosis, Sciatica,
Toothache, Urinary troubles, Uterus bearing down, Varicose veins, Whooping cough, ete.

SPHERES OF ACTION

Sepia acts of female genital organs, gastrointestinal tract, liver and portal system,
skin, glands and nervous system.

