636 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Temperament: Nervous and sanguine temperament.
Relation with heat and cold: Chilly patient.
Miasm: Psora is in the background.

1. “Profuseness” of all discharges is the key-note symptom of this drug. This
criterion runs through the whole remedy, e.g., in diarrhoea, vomiting,
sweat, etc.

2. Rapid sinking of the Vital Force; complete prostration and collapsed
condition.

3. Craving for acids, refreshing things, fruits, cold food, water and juicy things (Phos.).
Aversion to warm things.

4. Cold perspiration all over the body especially on the forehead; with nearly
all complaints.

5. Violent vomiting with profuse diarrhoea.
6. Bad effects of fright, opium taking, tobacco chewing, etc.
7. Intense unquenchable thirst for large quantities of cold water; wants everything cold.

N.B. Profuse cold perspiration on forehead, extreme coldness, blueness and
weakness are manifested by this drug with nearly all complaints.

8. Mind : The mental symptoms of Veratrum album are much more important for
arriving at a proper selection of the remedy than its other symptoms.

It has got all THREE TYPES OF MANIA i.e., the violent mania of Belladonna, the
religious mania of Stramonium and the lascivious mania of Hyoscyamus and each
one of them tries to supersede the other.

Sometimes the patient becomes VIOLENT AND DESTRUCTIVE. He wants to
destroy, to tear something, he tears the clothes, due to violent cerebral congestion.
There is bloated face and a disposition to bite and tear. This is only one phase of the
mania

In the other phase of the mania the patient becomes very much lascivious. Sings
obscene songs, thinks lewd thoughts, exhibits immodesty; the patient does not want
to cover his privateparts, kicks off the clothes and lies naked on the bed and exposes

the person. There is maniacal desire to kiss everyboy—NYMPHOMANIA AND
SATYRIASIS,

In the third phase there is the RELIGIOUS MANIA. The patient talks all the time

about God. There is a state of religious frenzy. He is praying and beseeching all the
time without respite.

Whenever we find all these three types of mania in a patient and when all
these mainas compete to supersede one another, Veratrum album is the
only remedy to be thought of and administered.
