70 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Female genital organs :

OEdema of labia; relieved by cold water. Oophoritis with burning stinging pain; worse in right ovary.
Ovarian tumour. Great tenderness over abdomen and uterine region.

Menses:

Suppressed with cerebral and head symptoms, espcially in young girls. Metrorrhagia profuse, with
heavy abdomen, faintness and stinging pain. Sense of tightness. Bearing down sensation as if menses
were to appear.

For dysmenorrhoea with severe ovarian pain, Apis is a good medicine.

Skin :

Skin is waxy, pale and oedematous. Very sensitive to touch. Erysipelas with stinging, burning pain.
OEdematous condition of face, especially lower eyelids, extends from right to left. (Left to right, Rhus
tox.).

Urticaria: Like bee stings or stings from other poisonous insects. Body covered with large, elevated
white wheals, stinging, buming, pricking and smarting or itching of the skin.

¢ Aggravation: At night, by covering, application of heat or in a warm room.
* Amelioration: From cold and open air.

Boils and carbuncles: Rosy hue; oedematous condition sensitive to touch. Aggravation from heat,
covering and amelioration from cold application.

Cancer: The affected part has great buring and stinging pain with extreme sensitiveness to touch
and general soreness. Metastasis of cancerous affection takes place in the cellular tissue with effusion.

Modalities:
¢ Aggravation: By warmth and hot application In: general and by covering.
¢ Amelioration: By cold application.

Fever :
Apis is an excellent drug for both remittent and intermittent fever.

Intermittent fever: Chill begins at 3 p.m. with thirst (Ign), Pulse is full and rapid, small and trembling
intermittently. Chilliness from least motion. Swelling and burning of lips during entire paroxysm. After
fever paroxysms there is deep sleep. After perspiration, there may be nettle-rash, also with shuddering.
No thirst in sweat stage. Worse from warm and heated room and external heat.

Remittent fever: Apis is an infallible remedy for remittent fever especially when the fever assumes a
typhoid form or meningitis, cerebral fever, etc. The patient is generally thirstless except during chill. Chill
running over the back. Fever is continuous and low type. The patient does not like to cover up or to be
touched for the body Is very sensitive. Always wants open alr, uncovering and cold drinks.

General Modalities :

Aggravation : After sleep (Lach.), closed, warm and heated room, from getting wet (Rhus tox.),
touch, pressure, late in afternoon, 3p.m., right side.

Amelioration: In open air, uncovering, cold bathing, pains by coughing, walking or changing
Position, when sitting erect.
