206 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

clay coloured and yellow. In addition, aggravation from slightest motion is a very prominent symptom
of Bryonia, whereas it is not so well-marked in Chelidonium. Aggravation from warm drink and food is
found in Bryonia, but opposite condition is present in Chelidonium.

Lycopodium differs from Chelidonium as follows : In chronic disease, Lyco is indicated whereas
Chelidonium is called for in acute conditions, Aggravation FORM 4-8P.M, is very characteristic of Lyco,
but not so in Chelidonium. Lyco, also differs from Chelidonium especially jn the rumbling. of flatus, In
Lyco., taste is sour whereas bitter in Chelidonium. The pains of Lyco.,.are dull aching while the pains
of Chelidonium are sharp and lancinating,

Gall-Stone Colic :
Gall-stone colic with PAIN UNDER THE RIGHT SCAPULA with nausea and bilious vomiting. There
is sharp, lancinating pain in the gall-bladder region.
There is yellowish grey colour of the skin, face, forehead, nose, etc.
The tongue is thick, yellow Coated, showing imprint of teeth.
Patient wants very hot drinks.
Modalities:
* Aggravation: From touch and motion.
* Better by: Pressure.
Pneumonia :
For Pneumonia associated with liver affections, Chelidonium is a good medicine.
Location: Lower lobe of right lung is generally affected.
Sensation: Constriction of chest.

Character of pain: Dysponea, very quick and sharp inspiration; pain on inspiration; PAIN IN THE.
RIGHT SIDE OF CHEST AND SHOULDER.
Character of cough: There is spasmodic cough, small lumps of mucous fly from mouth wher
coughing (Kali carb., Psorinum).
Tongue: Thick yellow coating on tongue with imprint of teeth.
* Aggravation; On right side, from motion and touch.

* Amelioration: From pressure.
Concomitants: Patient wants very hot drinks, There is yellow skia yellowish urine, fan like mote?

of alae nasi.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: Right side, motion, touch and change of weather.
Amelioration : After dinner, form pressure,

Relations :
Sulphur often completes its work.

Complementary: Lyco., Bry.
Antidoted by; Acon., Camphor, Coffee.

It Antidotes: Bryonia.
