ra

Syphilinum 601

Modality: Aggravation at night, from dusk to daylight, from heat of sun, from 10-11 p.m.

Mouth :
Causation: Syphilitic and fungal infection of mouth.

Sensation: Mouth feels as if ulcerated and burns like FIRE. Tongue coated white; edges indented by
teeth. Two deep cracks, running lengthwise on it; one on either side of the median line. Ulceration of the
tongue, lips, buccal cavity and fauces which smart and burn like fire.

Character of pain: Smarting pain in the mouth. Teeth decay at edges of the gum and break off;
edges serrated and dwarfed in size with convergent tips. Excessive flow of saliva.

Modality: Aggravation; At night and from mastication.

Constipation :
Causation: Syphilitic affection.
Sensation: As if the rectum is tied'up with strictures.

Character: Obstinate constipation for years. Rectum seems to be tied up with strictures, when
enema was used the agony of passage was like that of labour. Chronic constipation with foetid breath.
Stool is light or dark coloured and very offensive, Character of the pain is like that of labour.

Modality: Aggravation by passing stool.

Heart:

Lancinating pain in the heart at night, from base to apex. Better at high altitude and aggravation
at sea shore and at night (Pain from apex to base, Med.; from base to shoulder, Spigelia).

Leucorrhoea :

Yellow offensive leucorrhoea, very muh offensive and profuse. It daily soaks through napkin with
pain across the small of the back.

Bones :
Causation: Syphilitic affection.
Location : Especially in long bones of upper and lower extremities.

Inflammation of all joints; rheumatism. Pain and swelling in limbs with stiffness. Severe pain in long
bones, particularly extremities preventing sleep, Caries of cervical and dorsal vertebrae.

Character of pain: Severe, lancinating pain from sunset to sunrise. Pain comes gradually and goes
away slowly.

Modalities:
* Aggravation; From hot application; warmth of bed; at night and extremes of heat and cold.
* Amelioration: From pouring cold water on affected parts, from walking and at daybreak.

General Modalities :
Aggravation: At night, from twilight to daylight and at sea shore.
Amelioration: At high altitude.

Relations :
Compare: Aurum, Mercurius and Phytolacca in syphilitic affections.
