712 Text Book of MATERIA MEDICA

Cloudy urine (Lys.) Smoky urine.

Coalescing (Hepar.) Comeing together and forming one whole.
Cobweb (Brom, Graph.) Spider’s network, material of it, thread of this.
Colliquative Sweats (Phos. A.); Excessive sweats.

Commotion (Spig.) Physical or mental disturbance.

Concussion (Am. M.) A condition arising from a violent jar or shock.

Condylomata (Nit. A. Sab., Thuj.) A wart like excrescence at the anus or vulva, or on the
glans penis. Condylomata lata found as a manifestation of late secondary syphilis.

Confinement (Pyr., Ruta) Lying-in; giving birth to a child.

Constitution iTTie physical make-up of the body, including the mode of performance of its
functions, the activity of its metabolic processes, the manner and degree of its reaction to
stimuli and its power of resistance to the attack of Pathogenic organisms.

Consumptive (Fer, M.) Sufferer from a wasting of the tissues of the body, usually in
tuberculosis.

Contemptuous (Plat.) One who looks down upon other.

Contusions (Arn. M., Euph, Ham.) A bruise; slight bleeding into tissues whilst the skin
remains unbroken.

Convalescence (Calc. Os.) A period between the end of a disease and the patient's
restoration to complete health.

Convulsive gagging (Bism.) Spasmodic type of suffocation.
Coppery hue (Merc.) Coppery colour or coppery tint.

Corpse like (Plum) Pale, like dead person.

Corpulent (Aur. M., Op., Cale. Os., Lobelia) Bulky (of body); fat.

Corns (Ant C., Hyp, Thuj) A cone-shaped, overgrowth and hardening of epidermis, with the
point of the cone in the deeper layers; produced by friction or pressure.

Countenance (Acon., sec. c,) Expression on face.

Crazy (Aeon., Actaea.) Insane.

Crib (Bar.) Cradle.

Criencephalique (Hell, N.) Cerebral cry found in Meningitis.
Cross (Nat. M. Cham., Aesc. H.) Annoyed.

Croup (Ars. A., Kali. Bi.) Laryngeal obstruction croupy breathing in a child is often called
‘Stridulous’ meaning noisy or harsh-sounding.

Crowing inspiration (Ambra) Inspiratory sound resembling loud cry of a cock.

Crumbling at verge of anus (Ammon. M., Mag. M., Nat. M.) Broken out into pieces at the
opening of anus.
