Crotalus Hornidus 249

Haemorrhage :

In malignant diseases of uterus: Great tendency of haemorrhage. The blood discharge is DARK,
FLUID, DECOMPOSED AND NON COAGULABLE, The blood loses all power of coagulation; hence
clots are not usually detected in the haemorrhage (Lach., Naja coagulates the blood with long strings). In
intestinal haemorrhage when occurring in typical septic or zymotic diseases where the blood is dark,
fluid and offensive, Crotalus is a wonderful remedy.

There is haemorrhagic diathesis. The blood flows from all the orifices of the body e.g. ear, nose,
eyes, and even from the pores of skinr In blood poisoning, pulse can scarcely be felt. Completely
collasped. Condition with great prostration of vital force and blood sweat.

There may also be PURPURA HAEMORRHAGICA, coming suddenly from all the orifices e.g. skin,
nails, gums, etc.

During haemorrhage the skin becomes cold and dry. The patient wants fanning. Usually right
side is more affected.

Fever :

In low septic typhoid or malarial fevers or in zymotic diseases. There is low state of vitality.
The septic condition, the history of septic absorption with tremendous weakness, great prostration of vital
force, petechial eruption and haemorrhage are clear indications of this drug. The skin is yellow and the
sweafstains linen red, due to presence of blood in sweat. Putrescence is found everywhere.

The tongue is fiery red, smooth and polished, intensely swollen. The pulse is scarcely felt. Weak
and slow pulse.
Comparison between Crotalus and Lachesis.
Similarities:
1. Both are potentised from snake poison.
2. Both are haemorrhagic remedies.
3. Both are worse from sleep and sleeps into aggravation.
4. Both are intolerant of pressure and tight clothing.
5. Both have loquacity.
6. Both have bluenesss of parts.
7. Both have bloody sweat.
8. Both have yellowness and jaundiced look of the skin.
9. Both want fanning.

Distinctions:
1. Crotalus affects right side more, Lachesis left.
2. Crotalus skin is cold and dry, but Lachesis skin Is cold and clammy.
3. Crotalus has more haemorrhage than Lachesis.
4. Lachesis has more intense sensitivity to touch, pressure and constriction.
5. Crotalus has more specific effects on liver than Lachesis.
6. Lachesis is more suited to patients of climacteric age than Crotalus.
7, Malignant jaundice is more marked in Crotalus than in Lachesis.
