CALCAREA SULPHURICA

Synonym : Common Names:
Calcium Sulphate Gypsum, Plaster of Paris

Calcarea sulph stands in close
relation to suppurations. It cures
purulent discharges from the
mucous membranes and purulent
exudations in serous sacs, as well as
tubercular ulcers or abscesses of the
intestines, and ulcers of the cornea,
etc. It is curative in suppurations at
that stage in which matter is
discharging or continuing to ooze
after the infiltrated places have
discharged their contents of pus. All
ailments in which the process of discharge continues too long and the suppuration is
afiecting the epithelial tissues. Acts upon the connective tissue. If there is a deficiency of
it in any small part of its domains, suppuration is the result and allows suppuration to
continue too long. Thus a deficiency of this salt causes long protracted suppurations. It
controls suppuration. The presence of pus with a vent is the general indication.

The third stage of all catarrhs, lung troubles, boils, carbuncles, ulcers or abscesses
need this cell-salt.

Cale Sulph cleans out the accumulation of non-functional, organic matter in the
tissues and causes infiltrated parts to discharge their contents readily, throwing- off
decaying organic matter, so that it may not lie dormant or slowly decay and thus injure
the surrounding tissues.

Cale Sulph is indicated in conditions arising from impurities in the blood steam. It
supplements the action of Kali Mur in the treatment of catarrh, acne, etc. and it should
always be given when pimples occur in adolescence.

CHARACTERISTIC INDICATIONS

1. It is indicated in the third stage of all suppurative process when the discharge is
thick, yellow, purulent and sometimes tinged with blood.

2. In all cases of suppuration, when the discharge continues too long and the sore is
unhealthy.

3. Symptoms are aggravated by getting wet or by washing and working in water;
overheated; warmth and are better in a warm, dry atmosphere.

4. Follows Silicea well, and will cause the wound to heal. While silica hastens the
process of suppuration in a normal manner, Calc. sulph. closes up the process at the
proper time if it is present in the blood in proper quantity,

671
