staphisagria 585
bia aae

The patient persistently dwells upon sexual subjects and constantly think of sexual
pleasure.

15. Ailments from : Onanism, sexual excess, sexual abuse, loss of vital fluids,
pride, envy, chagrin, anger with indignation, mortification, unmerited insults,
vexation, reserved displeasure, mechanical injuries from sharp cutting instruments,
post-surgical operations, lithotomy or ovariotomy.

PARTICULARS

Marasmus :

Eyes:

Styes and chalazae appear on upper lids or on both the eyelids; coming on one after
another and when they disappear, hard nodosities are left in their place (Conium, Thuja).

Gastro-intestinal Symptoms :

Toothache : There is toothache appearing during menses. Both sound and decayed toothache. But
the peculiarity of the toothache is that the teeth are very painful to the touch of food and drink, but
not from biting or chewing. Toothache is aggravated by drawing in cold air into the mouth and from
cold drinks and after eating (rev. of mez.). The teeth turn black, show dark streaks through them; cannot
keep them clean, tooth crumbles and decays at edges (Decays at root and crown intact, Thuja, Mez.—
Crown decay and roots intact, Merc. sol.). Scorbutic cachexia.

Stomach : Sensation as if the stomach and abdomen feel hanging down and relaxed (Agar., Ipec.).
There is extreme appetite even when the stomach is full of food (Cina, Lyco., Lac can.). Ravenous hunger
for days before attack of fever. There is also colicky pain in abdomen after lithotomy or ovariotomy.
Nausea, vomiting during pregnancy.

Urine symptoms : There is nervous weakness as if done up after much hard work. The patient has
urgent urging to urinate; still has to sit at the urinal for hours before urine will pass. This symptom is
especially noticed in newly married women after coition or after difficult labour, There is, burning in
urethra when not urinating. Prolapse of urinary bladder (cystocele) is a common feature. Where there
are prostatic troubles in old men even after urinating, there is urging followed by pain.

Sexual organs : Due to sexual excess or sexual abuse, the patient feels very much guilty, with
sunken face and abashed look; very much weak and prostrated. Sexual organs are relaxed and
atrophied, with nocturnal emission followed by weakness and prostration. Sexual organs are very painful
and sensitive. Vulva is so sensitive that the patient can hardly wear a napkin (platina). There ts intolerable
sexual desire and excitement and, therefore, the patient is persistently dwelling upon sexual subjects and
constantly thinking of sexual pleasure.

Spermatorrhoea caused by sexual excess and/or sexual abuse Is successfully treated by this drug.

Cough : Patient requiring Staphisagria suffers from croupy cough, which is generally present only
in the daytime (Euph., Per. met.) or after dinner. Cough is worse after meat, after vexation or
indignation and is exeited by cleaning of teeth and by tobacco smoking.

Staphisagria patient manifests various kinds of skin troubles. There is eczema all over the body, from
Which a yellowish, acrid moisture oozes out, forming crusts over it. Wherever the exudation comes into
