natrum Sulphuricum 443

The patient cannot bear tight clothing around the waist. The tongue is dirty, greenish, gray or
brownish; in patients, who are having hydrogenoid constitution and history of suppressed gonorrhoea.
Diarrhoea : ;
¢ Causation: After a spell of wet weather, living or working in damp basement.
* Time: Morning diarrhoea as soon as the patient gets up from the bed, on first rising and
standing on feet (Compare Bryonia, Sulphur).
* Quantity: Profuse, copious.
¢ Character of stool: Sudden urging, gushing out of yellow greenish watery stool with much
flatus. ;
Involuntary stool while passing flatus.
* Modality: Aggravation in the morning, after a spell of a wet weather and living in damp

basement.
* Concomitants: Cheerful and happy mood, after loose stool.

Note: Natrum sulph. is indicated in chronic diarrhoea with tuberculosis of intestine (Clarke) in a
sycotic constitution.

Respiratory Symptoms :
Pneumonia : Sycotic pneumonia is often seen in Natrum sulph.
* Causation: From damp, wet weather, living in damp places.
* Stage: Late stage of pneumonia.
¢ Location: Lower lobe of left lung is usually affected.
¢ Sensation: All gone sensation in chest, sensation of excoriation in chest.
¢ Character of sputa: Congestion with thick yellowish greenish, ropy expectoration.
¢ Character of cough: Dry cough excited by tickling in throat with roughness of trachea.

During cough : There is sharp pain in the left chest; great soreness of chest. While coughing,
thepatient has to sit up in bed and hold chest with the hands.

There may be delayed resolution in pneumonia (Compare-Bryonia).
Modalities:

* Aggravation: From damp, wet weather and rainy weather,

* Ameliortion: By holding chest with the hands.

Concomitants: Dirty, greenish gray or brown coating on tongue. Constant desire to take long deep
breaths in wet season.

Asthma :
* Causation: Sycotic in origin, from exposure to damp cold wet weather.
* Time: 4-5 a.m. (After Ammon.carb., Kall carb).
* Character: Humid asthma, especially in children with every change of weather.
Dyspnoea with desire to take deep breaths, especially in rainy weather.
There is rattling in chest with chronic catarrh of the bronchial tubes.
Frequent attacks of cough with irritation in throat.

Pain : Sharp, shooting, stitching pain In the left chest, stitching, especially on the left side of the
chest. Patient springs up on the bed, has to sit upon bed and hold chest with both the hands.
