wr

Sulphur 595
baa one

10.

11.
12.

13.

14,

. Congestion in single parts; eyes, nose, lips, anus, etc.
. Sulphur should be thought of in the first instance when the patient comes with a

history of suppression of skin diseases by external apptication e.g., lotions,
ointments, etc.

. There is intense craving for sweet, acid, alcohol, beer, whisky, aversion to milk,

meat and business.

All the discharges, e.g. leucorrhoea, nasal discharge, etc. are ACRID AND
OFFENSIVE.

Aggravation by heat is another keynote of Sulphur, especially by warmth of bed.

Sulphur facilitates absorption of serous or inflammatory exudates in pleura, joints,
when the best selected remedies like—Apis, Bryonia, etc. fail.

Mind : Ragged philosopher. Even rags seem beautiful when the patient takes a
fancy for it. Everything seems full of beauty. He dresses himself in the most filthy
rags but considers tfiem to be the most elegant of decorations.

The patient wears a paper crown, thinking he is His Majesty, the king.

There is great weakness of memory. Cannot find the proper word during
conversation. He is very selfish and has no regard for others. Sulphur is indifferent
and disinclined to work of any and every description. Nothing appeals to him. Work,
pleasure, talking, exercise, etc. afford him no enjoyment.

There is a feeling of movement in abdomen, as of a child (Crocus, Thuja). Happy
dreams wake him up singing at night.

He is of a nervous temperament and hypochondriacal in nature.

Ailments from : Alcohol, suppression of skin diseases, Sun’s heat, over exertion,
etc.

PARTICULARS

Gastro-intestinal system :

Abdomen : There is WEAK, EMPTY, ALL GONE OR FAINT FEELING IN THE ABDOMEN AT

ABOUT 11 A.M. Cannot wait for lunch. Frequent, weak, faint spells during the day with burning
sensation.

There is great desire for sweets.
Aggravation from milk and meat.
Movement in the abdomen as of a foetus, Is felt by the patient.
Constipation :
* Causation: Alcoholism and suppression of skin eruption,
* Character of stool: Stoo! is very much HARD, KNOTTY, DRY AS IF BURNT, LARGE AND

PAINFUL. Difficult and painful defaecation. The patient is afrak! fo pass stool on account of pain, or pain
compels the patient to give up the effort, and the discharge of faeces is painful to parts over which it passes.

¢ Constipation alternates with diarrhoea.
