Capsicum 177

Relation with heat and Cold: CHILLY PATIENT,
Miasm: Psora is in the background.
Diathesis: Phlegmatic.

GUIDING SYMPTOMS

1. Burning and smarting sensation in the throat and other parts, not relieved by
heat whereas aggravated from cold water (Clarke).

9. Constriction in faces, throat, nares, chest, bladder, urethra and rectum.
3. Pain in distanat parts on coughing e.g. bladder, knees, legs, ears, etc.

4. The burning, spasmodic constriction and all other pains are worse
between the acts of degulutition (Ign.).

5. Every stool is followed by thirst and every drink is fallowed by shuddering.

6. Burning is aggravated by application of cold water and slightest draught of cold air,
but not relieved by heat.

7, Home-sickness with red cheeks and sleepiness (Ign. and Phosphoric acid); much hot
feeling in faces.

8. Mind : Mentally there are many striking features in Capsicum, Home-sickness is
well-marked which runs through the remedy with sleeplessness and red cheeks.
There is persistent thought of suicide. He does not want to kill himself; he resists
the thoughts which persist and he is tormented by these sad thoughts. The patient
is very taciturn, peevish and obstinate; great clumsiness and awkwardness,
excessive peevishness, wants to be left alone at home.

PARTICULARS

Headache :

Sensation: Headache as if the head would fly to pieces, feels as if head were large.
Character of headache: Bursting and throbbing type of headache. Headache as if the brain would

be pressed thorugh the forehead. Patient holds the head with hands.
Modalities:

e Aggravation: Moving the head, when walking or coughing and stepping.
¢ Amelioration; Lying down with head high.

Ear:

It has got peculiar action on the bones of the internal ear and MASTOID PROCESS.
Location: Inflammation of mastoid, In mastoid abscess with swelling and behind the ears.

Character of pain: BURNING AND STINGING PAIN in the ears; aching and pressing pain with
cough as if an abscess would burst.

Necrosis of the petrous portion of temporal bone and caries of the bones of ear, especially the
mastoid process are successfully treated by capsicum.
