Kali Muriaticum 349

Throat : Tonsils inflamed, enlarged so much can hardly breathe. Second remedy in tonsillitis as soon
as swelling appears. Follicular tonsillitis. Adherent crusts in vault of pharynx. Hospital sore throat.

Stomach : Fatty or rich food causes indigestion. Dyspepsia & indigestion with white gray
tongue. Sick feeling after taking fat, pain & heavy feeling on the right side under the shoulder. Indigestion
with vomiting of white opaque mucus, water gathers in mouth. Pain in stomach with constipation.

Abdomen & Stool :

Abdominal tenderness and swelling. Flatulence. Thread worms causing itching at the anus.

Constipation — With light coloured stools denoting want of bile, sluggish action of liver or ocurring
in consequence of some primary disturbance especially where fat and pastry disagree.

Diarrhoea — After fatty food and in typhoid fever with pale yellow, white or slimy stools.

Dysentery — purging with slimy stools Haemorrhoids — bleeding piles, blood dark and thick,
fibrinous, clotted.

Female Genital Organs :

Menstruation too late or suppressed, checked or too early ; excessive discharge; blood is dark
clotted or tough black like tar. Leucorrhoea ; discharge of milky white mucus thick non-irritating bland.
Morning sickness, with vomiting of white phlegm.

Breast—Bunches in breast feel quite, soft and are tender.

Respiratory Organs :

Asthma with gastric derangements, mucus white and hard to cough up. Rattling sounds of air passing
through thick tenacious mucus in the bronchi, difficult to cough up. Hard cough. Pnemonia. Pleurisy.
Phthisis with thick white milky sputa.

Back & Extremities :

Rheumatic pains felt only during motion ; or increased by it. Nightly rheumatic pains ; worse from
warmth of bed. Lightning like pains from small of back to feet ; must get out of bed and sit up. Rheumatic

fever ; exudations and swelling around the joints. Hands get stiff while writing. Chronic rheumatism
and swelling when all movements cause pain.

Skin : Abscess, boils, carbuncles etc in the second stage, when interstitial exudation takes place and
to cause swelling to disappear before matter forms. Acne., erythema, eczema and other eruptions on the
skin with vesicles containing thick white contents. Dry flour like scales on the skin. Ulcers with whitish,

flour like coating, or fibrinous white discharge. Bunions, chilblains, eruptions connected with stomach or
menstrual derangement.

General Modalities :
Aggravation : Rich food, fats, motion.
