Ferrum Phosphoricum «287

10) Mind : Indifference to ordinary matters. Loss of courage and hope, better after
sleep. Inability to command the right words or express himself.

PARTICULARS

Headache :
Causation ; Sunheat, Cold.
Location : Right sided headache from vertex to supraorbital region.

Sensation : Congestive headache, Throbbing sensation, bruising, pressing or stitching pain &
soreness to touch, cold, noise, Jar. gt i

Modalities : Aggravation—Right side, shaking the head, stooping and motion.
Amelioration ; Cold application.

Eyes :
Acute conjunctivitis. Hyperaemia of Optic disc and retina with blurred vision Eyes inflamed, red

with Gunning sensation, sore and redness looking and retinal congestion. Sensation as if
grains of sand were under eyelids.

Ears :

First stage of otitis. Membrana tympani red and bulging; Acute otitis, when Belladonna fails. Earache
after expo-sure to cold or wet Inflammatery earache with burning or throbbing pain or sharp, stitching
pain.

Gastrointestinal Symptoms :

Throat: Inflammation of the fauces. Ulcerated throat. Sore throat, dry, red inflamed with
much pain—First stage of diphtheria to lessen the fever. Sore throat of singers.

Stomach : Aversian to meat & milk. Desire for stimulants. First stage of gastritis, with pain swelling
and tenderness at the pit of the stomach. Vomiting of undigested food, bright red blood. Sour eructations.

Abdomen : First stage of dysentery with much blood in discharges. Stool watery. Contains mucus
and blood, urging but no tenesmus. Constipation with prolapse and haemor-rhoids. Haemorrhoids,
inflamed or bleeding bright red blood.

Respiratory Symptoms :

Nose : Congested mucous membranes, First stage of all cold in the head, predisposition to catch
cold. Catarrhal fever. Epistaxis.; bright red blood.

Chest: First stage of all inflammatory affections. Conges tion of lungs ; cough, hard, dry with
sore chest. Short painful tickling cough. Cough better at night. Expectoration of pure blood in

pneumonia, Bronchitis of young children. Haemop-tysis.
Urinary Symptoms :

Frequent desire to urinate, urine spurts out with every cough. Haematuria. Incontinence. Irritation at
neck of bladder. Polyuria. Diurnal enuresis. Female Genital Symptoms :

Menses every three weeks. Profuse with pressure in abdomen and small of the back and pain on
top of the head.
